https://www.data.gov/climate/climate-tools
Tools

Here are a few government and non-government software tools to help coastal communities and others analyze and assess vulnerabilities of sea level rise, storm surges, and sinking lands. Please let us know if there are other tools we should list here.

- Coastal Change Analysis Program (C-CAP) Land Cover Atlas: Provides access to regional land cover and land cover change information.
- CanVis: A visualization program used to “see” potential impacts from coastal development or sea level rise.
- Climate Resilience Evaluation and Awareness Tool (CREAT): Provides information on climate impacts to assist water utilities to assess future risks and vulnerabilities.
- Coastal Change Hazards Portal: The U.S. Geological Survey is uncovering the science behind coastal change hazards and providing data, tools, and scientific knowledge to help coastal planners as they work to reduce risk along our coastlines.
- Coastal County Snapshots: Turns complex data into easy-to-understand stories, complete with charts and graphs.
- Coastal Resilience: Delivers geospatial information on coastal ecosystems, socioeconomics, community vulnerability, and coastal hazards (including sea level rise and storm surge) via an internet mapping application that is a data viewer, data discovery tool, and a future scenario mapper.
- Digital Coast: Provides relevant data and tools necessary to assess coastal management issues such as coastal inundation, offshore renewable energy planning, coastal wetlands conservation, and sea level rise adaptation.
- Ecosystem-Based Management Tools Network Database: Search or browse to find tools for coastal and marine management and conservation projects, case studies of projects that have used tools, potential collaborators, and other resources.
- Extreme Water Levels: Provides annual and monthly exceedance probability levels for select Center for Operational and Oceanographic Products and Services water level stations with at least 30 years of data.
- Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) GeoPlatform: Providing geospatial data and analytics in support of emergency management.
- FEMA Region II Coastal Analysis and Mapping: View FEMA Flood Hazard Data for New Jersey and New York.
- Hawaii Tsunami Hazard Information Service: Online access to Hawaii tsunami evacuation zone maps, as well as information about potential risks, how to prepare, and what to do in the event of a tsunami.
- Hurricane SANDY Response Imagery: This rapid response imagery product was generated for use by emergency managers for visual analysis of damage in the Sandy impact area.
- Inundation Analysis Tool: Helps in determining the frequency (or occurrence of high waters for different elevations above a specified threshold) and duration (or the amount of time that the specified location is inundated by water) of observed high waters (tides).
- MarineCadastre.gov: Provides spatial context needed to address issues such as alternative energy and other types of marine planning efforts.
- National Stormwater Calculator (SWC): Estimates the annual amount of rainwater and frequency of runoff from a specific site anywhere in the United States (including Puerto Rico).
- Planning for Changing Sea Levels: Helps the public understand, in a general way, some potential future vulnerabilities to changing sea levels, waves, tides, and surges in the New York and New Jersey areas.
- Sea Level Rise Tool For Sandy Recovery: Addresses flood risk based on current conditions and has immediate, short-term benefits to communities, but does not adequately account for increasing flood risk resulting from sea level rise.
- Sea Level Rise Viewer: A slider bar shows how various levels of sea level rise will impact coastal communities.
- Sea Level Trends: Illustrates regional trends in sea level, with arrows representing the direction and magnitude of change. Click on an arrow to access additional information about that station.
- State of the Coast: Offers quick facts and more detailed statistics through interactive indicator visualizations that provide highlights of what we know about coastal communities, coastal ecosystems, and the coastal economy, and about how climate change might impact the coast.
- Surging Seas: Provides local regions and policy makers with the tailored local information they need to understand and respond to the risks of sea level rise and coastal flooding.
- United States Interagency Elevation Inventory: Displays availability of high-accuracy topographic and bathymetric data for the United States and its territories.

Resources

Coastal communities are becoming increasingly vulnerable to the risk of damage from coastal inundation. In the northeast, Hurricane Sandy was a stark reminder of the potential damage a single storm can cause. These additional resources listed below will allow you to create tools and provide information to help communities prepare for coastal inundation. Through the use of data, visualizations, and simulations, you can help people understand their exposure to coastal inundation hazards and their increased vulnerability due to population increase and sea level rise.

Current Flood Risk: The FEMA National Flood Hazard Layer

- ArcGISOnline Tool
- REST Service (directory only)
- Download

Sea Level Rise and Coastal Flooding Impacts

- Digital Coast Tool
- REST Services

Future Flood Risk Information for New York and New Jersey (Post-Sandy)

- Online Tool

ArcGIS Online Maps

- New Jersey and New York State
- New York City
- REST Services (New York and New Jersey 2050 and 2100 and New York City 2050)
- Download (registration required)

Coastal Erosion and Vulnerability

- Shoreline change, Sea-Level Vulnerability, extreme storms coastal erosion hazards
- Composite Inundation Hazards for the Hurricane Sandy Impact Area

    - Spatial extents of multiple flood hazard data sets combined. Flood hazard data sets include shallow coastal flooding, FEMA flood data (V zones, A zones, and 500-year zones treated as individual layers), storm surge for category 3 hurricane, and sea level rise of 3 feet above mean high tide.

Coastal Flood Frequency

This dataset depicts the extent of flood-prone coastal areas based on predicted water levels exceeding specific tidal heights as issued by local National Weather Service offices.

- Tool Homepage
- REST Service
- Download

Socio-Economic Data

Social Vulnerability Index (SoVI) Census Block Groups (2000) – University of South Carolina Hazards and Vulnerability Research Institute

Index measuring the social vulnerability of Census block groups to environmental hazards

- REST Service
- Download (Tool)

Economics: National Ocean Watch (ENOW)

Contributing Partners: Bureau of Economic Analysis, NOAA Coastal Services Center, Bureau of Labor Statistics

ENOW is time-series data on the Ocean and Great Lakes Economy, which includes six economic sectors that depend on the oceans and Great Lakes. ENOW is available for counties, states, and the nation in a wide variety of formats.

- Tool Homepage
- Tool Wizard
- REST Service
- Download

Historical Hurricane Tracks

Contributing Partners: NOAA Coastal Services Center

Enables viewers to find tropical cyclone data in the Atlantic and Eastern Pacific Basins

- Tool Homepage
- REST Service
- Download

U.S. Geoplatform

Contributing Partners: U.S. Geological Survey

Geospatial resources are available from the geoplatform.

http://www.google.com/earth/outreach/stories/unep.html

http://scikit-learn.org/stable/auto_examples/applications/plot_species_distribution_modeling.html

http://www.google.com/gadgets/directory?synd=earth&id=473435200483
http://www.google.com/gadgets/directory?synd=earth&cat=science_environment

http://cesium.agi.com/index.html

Cesium is an open-source JavaScript library for creating 3D globes and 2D maps in a web browser without a plugin. It uses HTML5 and WebGL for hardware-accelerated graphics. Our code has shipped to 10's of millions of people in the same day. We have a culture of writing clean, peer-reviewed, tested code. Our developers are experts in their fields; they write books, create open standards, and present at international conferences. We look forward to helping you grow your skills and ship beautiful code that has wide impact.

https://www.strausscenter.org/ccaps/
http://ccaps.aiddata.org/climate

Announcing a New CCAPS Dashboard to Explore Climate Security Vulnerability in Africa

September 04, 2013

The Strauss Center’s Climate Change and African Political Stability (CCAPS) program today released the new CCAPS climate dashboard, an online platform that displays data on physical, socio-economic, demographic, and political insecurities to assess how these factors contribute to “climate security” vulnerability in Africa.

The CCAPS climate dashboard, built in partnership with Development Gateway, utilizes the CCAPS Climate Security Vulnerability Model to analyze where and how climate-related events could disrupt Africa’s security and development.

“The climate dashboard allows users to explore pressing climate security risks in a new hands-on way,” said CCAPS senior program manager Ashley Moran. “Leveraging the rigorous modeling of CCAPS researchers, the dashboard allows people to use the model to explore insecurities in Africa and to test their own beliefs about what drives vulnerability to climate change in Africa.”

The dashboard shows how the four sources of vulnerability used in the CCAPS model—physical exposure to climate-related hazards, population density, household and community resilience, and governance and political violence—contribute to local areas’ overall vulnerability to climate security concerns.

While the CCAPS model weights each source of vulnerability equally, the interactive features of the dashboard allow users to explore how changing these weights impact the overall understanding of vulnerability. In addition to reweighting the CCAPS climate security model, users can see how the model is built, learn more about how the model has been tested, and download maps produced by the CCAPS model.

“The CCAPS model offers a nuanced way to assess the security vulnerabilities associated with climate change in Africa and the potential intervention points to build resilience,” said LBJ School associate professor Joshua Busby whose team developed the CCAPS climate security vulnerability model. “We are excited about this new interactive platform that allows researchers and policymakers to engage with the model in a dynamic way.”

CCAPS partnered with Development Gateway to launch its award winning integrated mapping platform in early 2012 to analyze how climate, conflict, and aid intersect. CCAPS and Development Gateway have since produced data dashboards to provide in-depth examination of several thematic areas under study on the CCAPS program.
The Strauss Center’s CCAPS program analyzes the security implications of climate change in Africa, through funding from the U.S. Department of Defense’s Minerva Initiative.

https://github-camo.global.ssl.fastly.net/24a9b57aaa74f9619be2d3e85a0a5b9a29c0704c/687474703a2f2f63657369756d2e6167692e636f6d2f696d616765732f4f6e65417069546872656556696577732e706e67

http://www.google.com/gadgets/directory?synd=earth&cat=science_environment

- Eyes on the Forest Sumatra ...
WWF

- Ocean Planning
Living Oceans Society

- Earth at Night 2012
NASA

- Coastal Land Cover Map
NOAA

- America’s Most Endangered R...
American Rivers

- Historical Topographic Maps
USGS

- Earth at Night
NASA

- Natural Earth Physical
Natural Earth

- Roads and Protected Areas i...
Imazon

- The Earth from Above with G...
GoodPlanet

- Mexico percent tree cover map
Google

- Appalachian Mountaintop Rem...
Appalachian Voices

- Natural Earth Raster
Natural Earth

- Local Ecological Knowledge ...
Living Oceans Society

- Appalachian Voices My Conne...
Appalachian Voices

- Arctic Tern Migration
Atlantic Public Media for t...

- Greenland Ice Melt, 1980-2007
National Snow & Ice Data Ce...

- Temperature Observations, 1...
IPCC Secretariat

- Touring the world’s largest...
Pew Environment Group

- EarthNC NOAA charts
EarthNC

- Arctic Tern Migration
Atlantic Public Media for t...

- Greenland Ice Melt, 1980-2007
National Snow & Ice Data Ce...

- Temperature Observations, 1...
IPCC Secretariat

- Touring the world’s largest...
Pew Environment Group

- EarthNC NOAA charts
EarthNC

Business & Economy
Culture & History
Crisis & Humanitarian
Photos & Imagery
Science & Environment
Terrain & Elevation
Travel & Recreation
Browse all

- Ocean Expeditions
NOAA et al

- Ocean Observations
NOAA

- National Geographic Magazine
National Geographic Society

- Marie Tharp Historical Map
Marie Tharp Maps

- ARKive: Endangered Species
ARKive

- Earthwatch Expeditions
Earthwatch Institute

- Animal Tracking
GTOPP

- UNEP: Atlas of Our Changing...
UNEP (United National Envir...

- Jane Goodall Institute - Go...
The Jane Goodall Institute

- Census of Marine Life
Census of Marine Life

- Marine Protected Areas
International Union for Con...

- WWF: Conservation Projects
WWF

- Appalachian Mountaintop Rem...
Appalachian Voices

- ARKive: Endangered Ocean Sp...
ARKive

- Greenpeace
Greenpeace

- Arctic Sea Ice
The National Snow and Ice D...

- MCS: Fish to Eat
MCS

- Ocean Dead Zones
World Resources Institute (...

- Human Impacts
NCEAS

- National Geographic Ocean A...
National Geographic Society

- Actual CO2 Emissions from 4...
Carbon Visuals

- Saving Sumatra's tiger habitat
WWF/David Tryse

- Cousteau Ocean World
Cousteau.org

- The Science of Marine Reserves
Partnership for Interdiscip…

Crisis & Humanitarian
Photos & Imagery
Science & Environment
Terrain & Elevation
Travel & Recreation
Browse all

- Mangroves of Mexico
CONABIO and David Tryse

- Volcanoes
Global Volcanism Program, S...

- Earthquakes
USGS

- Southern Forests for the Fu...
World Resources Institute

- Kampala, Uganda: Urbanizati...
United Nations Environment ...

- Mabira Forest, Uganda: A Fo...
United Nations Environment ...

- Mount Elgon: Balancing Natu...
United Nations Environment ...

- Mau Forest, Kenya: Forest L...
United Nations Environment ...

- Google Earth Seafloor Updates
Google

- Underwater Terrain Tour
mw1.google.com

- Solar System in Motion
Google, Inc

- Rising Sea Level Animation
Zoltán Büki

- Shipwrecks Tour
Shipwreck Central

- NOAA Coral Reef Watch
U.S. National Oceanic and A...

- Global Paleogeographic Views
Valery Hronusov

- World Wide Volcanoes
Smithsonian Institution, Gl...

- MarineTraffic.com
Dimitris Lekkas

- The Impact of a Global Temp...
HM Government

- NOAA Estuarine Bathymetry
NOAA

- US School Districts
US Census Bureau

- Generalized Geologic Map of...
USGS

- Sea Surface Temperature
byss.arc.nasa.gov

- Marine Debris
National Oceanic and Atmosp...

- Hurricane Katrina
Brian Flood


http://files.minecraftforge.net/
https://groups.google.com/forum/?fromgroups=#!forum/minecraft-teachers

http://www.visualizing.org/visualizations/109

Environment Performance Index
Knoema

Are global co2 emissions still risi...
allardwarrink

Countries With the Most Installed S...
dan

Greenhouse Gases Country Profile
Knoema

Light pollution
InfographicMarketing

Shocking Facts About Factory Farmin...
StaceyTSD

Fields of Gold: Changes in the US C...
FlapjackMedia

The Solar Energy Timeline
avasili1

The Pollute-o-Meter
Garrett Stringer

Is Scotland getting wetter?
Wise Property Care

About the Iran's Environment I...
sadeghsm

How Can Businesses Save On Fuel - I...
NicoleatNexTraq

Global Temperatures Since 1900
halftone

Why is the Sky Blue?
halftone

Making a Splash: Fast and Fascinati...
Nowsourcing

Ways to Save Water
dan

Children of the Haze
Ru Hong

How Green is Your State: INTERACTIV...
caradelany

blprnt.blg

Data & Art Miscellanea from Jer Thorp
Source Code & Tutorials

Recently, I have released source code for a number of projects. In most cases these projects are released as they were published – while the code is reasonably well-commented, the projects weren’t build specifically to be released and thus may not be shining examples of standards and software architecture.

That said, I hope that these releases will serve as inspiration for you to make some things of your own. If you do end up building something interesting, please let me know.

Source Code

Processing

- Kepler Visualization[post][GitHub]
- tree.gowth [post][project][download]
- GoodMorning! [post][download]
- NYTimes: 365/360[post][project][download]
- NYTimes: GraphMaker [post][download]
- BC Budget Visualization Took [post][download]

ActionScript 2

- Variance [post][project][download]
- smart.rockets [post][project][download]
- Particle Swarm Optimization [download]

Except where otherwise noted, all source releases are licensed under the CC-GNU GPL version 2.0 or later.

Tutorials

In addition to source releases, I have also written a number of tutorials designed to help people learn how to use code in a creative context. Here is a list of the posts which contain step-by-step tutorials:

- Twitter & Processing – http://blog.blprnt.com/blog/blprnt/quick-tutorial-twitter-processing
- Processing, JSON & The NYTimes – http://blog.blprnt.com/blog/blprnt/processing-json-the-new-york-times
- Multi-faceted searching with the NYTimes Article Search API – http://blog.blprnt.com/blog/blprnt/multi-faceted-searching-with-the-nytimes-apis
- Research & Discovery with the Guardian’s APIs – http://www.guardian.co.uk/open-platform/blog/the-truth-is-in-there
- Processing & Spherical Coordinates – http://blog.blprnt.com/blog/blprnt/processing-tutorial-spherical-coordinates

http://blog.blprnt.com/blog/blprnt/open-science-h1n1-processing-and-the-google-spreadsheet-api
Michael Nielson is the author of the most cited physics publication of the last 25 years. He’s also a frequent blogger, writing on such disparate topics as chess & quantum mechanics.  He has written several excellent posts about open science, including this article about the future of science and this one about doing science online. In both articles, he argues that scientists should be utilizing web-based technologies in a much more efficient manner than they have thus far. In doing so, he believes (as do I) that the efficiency of science as a whole can be greatly improved. In his articles, Michael concentrates both on specialized services such as Science Advisor and the physics preprint arXiv, as well as more general web entities like Wikipedia and FriendFeed. I agree that these services and others (specifically, I am going to look at Google Docs) can play a useful role in building working models for open science. I’ll argue as well that open-source ‘programming for the people’ initiatives such as Processing and OpenFrameworks could be useful in fostering collaborative efforts in a scientific context.

Under the hood of virtual globes

Full Text:

PDF

Buy this Article

Authors:

Patrick Cozzi

University of Pennsylvania, Exton, PA

Kevin Ring

Analytical Graphics, Inc., Exton, PA

Published in:

· Proceeding

COM.Geo '11 Proceedings of the 2nd International Conference on Computing for Geospatial Research & Applications

Article No. 79
ACM New York, NY, USA ©2011
table of contents ISBN: 978-1-4503-0681-2 doi>10.1145/1999320.1999403
Virtual globes are a key tool for visualizing large geospatial datasets. This half day course goes under the hood of virtual globes and looks at their implementation techniques from the software developer's perspective. Our focus is not on one particular virtual globe, such as NASA World Wind or Google Earth; instead, we discuss common techniques used by many virtual globes, including coordinate transformations, globe representations, precision, multithreading, and terrain rendering. We also consider the differences between virtual globe 3D engines and game engines.

Attendees should have software development experience. A background in computer graphics is useful, but not required.

Tools for Non-Coders
Create and remix the web with Webmaker tools.

X-Ray Goggles

See how the web works

X-Ray Goggles allow you to see the building blocks that make up websites on the internet. Activate the goggles to inspect the code behind any webpage, then remix elements with a single click, swapping in your own text, images and more.

You can build:

- a custom homepage for the New York Times
- an alternate version of a controversial webpage
- a funny remix of your best friend's favourite site
- and more!

Get started

Try the Goggles now

Thimble

Webmaking made easy

Thimble makes it ridiculously simple to create and share your own web pages. Write and edit HTML and CSS right in your browser, then instantly preview your work. Host and share your finished projects with a single click. Perfect for beginners and experts alike.

You can build:

- a personalized greeting card
- an online poster for your favourite movie
- a hilarious meme
- and more!

Get started

Start from scratch
Remix a make

Popcorn Maker

Supercharge web video

Popcorn Maker helps you easily remix web video, audio and images into cool mashups that you can embed on other websites. Drag and drop content from the web, then add your own comments and links —all within your browser. Popcorn Maker videos are dynamic, full of links and unique with every view.

You can build:

- an animated gif with sound
- a documentary with dynamic links
- a video profile to introduce yourself to the world
- and more!

Get started

Start from scratch
Remix a make

Hey Makers!

Want to get started, but don't know what to make yet? Here are some projects you can remix now!

Meme Maker

17 Likes

Use a little HTML to swap in your own image and caption. Easy!

#meme #teach-project #beginner

Remix

Ideas Mood Board

15 Likes

A multimedia Mood Board to share photos, post-it notes and ideas. Level: Beginner/ Intermediate.

#corkboard
Remix

Book Cover

27 Likes

You're the author of this runaway best seller.

#bookcover #intermediate

Remix

Animating Poster

24 Likes

Work with CSS elements to create a set of moving boxes. Level: Advanced

#animatingposter
Remix

Meme Maker

14 Likes

Create your very own meme. Level: Beginner

#meme #teach-project

Remix

Magazine Cover

14 Likes

Create a simple magazine cover. Level: Beginner

#thimblemag
Remix

Comic Strip

20 Likes

Make a customised graphic novel-style comic strip using images found on the web. Level: Beginner

#comicmake
Remix

Vintage Newspaper

16 Likes

Share important news stories on an old-fashioned newspaper format. Level: Beginner/Intermediate level knowledge.

#onthisday
Remix

Learning Tube Map

15 Likes

Learn how to build a webpage using the London Tube map. Level: Intermediate.

#teachtheweb #tubemap

Remix

Gig Poster

16 Likes

Create a poster for your gig along with a photo array of past shows. Level: Intermediate

#gigposter
Remix

Movie Poster

29 Likes

Create your own poster and movie pitch.

#movieposter #beginner

Remix

Art Porfolio

14 Likes

Place images, videos and other multimedia on a digital wall. Level: Beginner.

#cleanportfolio
Remix

Postcard

24 Likes

Make a two-sided postcard that flips over for a personalised message.

#wishyouwerehere #intermediate

Remix

Keep Calm And...

27 Likes

Remix the famous Keep Calm and Carry On slogan and make it your own. Level: Beginner

#keepcalm
Remix

Art Portfolio 2

13 Likes

Place images, videos and other multimedia on a digital wall. Level: Beginner.

#beautifulportfolio
Remix

How-To Page

13 Likes

Create a step-by-step set of instructions to share. Level: Beginner.

#bottlerocket
Remix

Class Project

8 Likes

Write a summary for a school project. Level: Intermediate

#scienceproject
Remix

Photo Album

15 Likes

Share photos from a holiday. Level: Beginner

#holidayalbum
Remix

http://www.gpsvisualizer.com/geocoder/

http://sourceforge.net/projects/cdat/?source=recommended

Using Mozilla Popcorn Maker to Create an Interactive Video
http://miriamposner.com/blog/using-mozilla-popcorn-maker-to-create-an-interactive-video/

Open Source Code

Quote on importance of open source
http://opensource.org/
http://www.pdviz.com/tag/network

http://users.dimi.uniud.it/~massimo.franceschet/netart/images/internet.png

https://github.com
http://sourceforge.net/

https://github.com/maxogden/dat
http://gsa.github.io/federal-open-source-repos/
https://github.com/mbostock/d3
http://d3js.org/
http://philogb.github.io/jit/
http://shancarter.github.io/mr-data-converter/
https://github.com/twbs/bootstrap
http://christinabergey.com/notes_code/treecover_globe/index.html

http://data.bibbase.org/
http://sourceforge.net/projects/oat/files/

Define W3C / Semantic Web
Iframe for W3C

This wiki is for connecting the W3C communities (Web developers, implementers, people who make the W3C specifications). The W3C has a formal track for making standards specifications. The specs answer a lot of questions, but not all of them. The wiki is used by many communities such as the Open Web Platform and the Semantic Web. You might want to contribute to W3C work

Pages here have no formal status but may have WikiConsensus. Questions & answers here may be misleading, or just plain wrong. Or, they may be useful. You are welcome to add, fix, develop and rearrange topics.

W3C invites the public to edit this wiki. W3C Membership is not required but you must have an account. Request a W3C Account to get started. Note that you must log in with your account in order to edit the wiki.

CSS

See CSS.

Open Web Platform

Specifications
See http://w3.org/TR for current specs. Wrk being done to improve specs in general:

Evolution
An attempt to round up discussions about extensibility, versioning, naming, identifiers, registries, standards process.

Encouraging Participation
Please help us identify barriers to participation in W3C activities, discussions, teams, etc. More importantly, contribute ideas on how to get around those barriers! Open to all! Click the title and join in!

SocialWeb

- SocialWebHeadlightsTaskForce

Semantic Web

SemanticWebTools:

- Semantic Web Tools SemanticWebTools, Corese (RDF, RDFS, SPARQL), Jena (RDF, RDFS, OWL), Writing services, term papers, Sesame, TAP, visitar conjugation , Redland, hk1980.rdf (interface only) Cerebra Server (RDF, RDFS, OWL) OWLIM (RDF, RDFS, OWL), Smart Guy (NL to RDF, SeRQL) . See the separate page for a more comprehensive listing
- Semantic Web Authoring Tools IdeaGraph, IsaViz (RDF editing GUIs), Morla, Cerebra Workbench Pearly Penile Papules Removal

Pearly Penile Papules Pearly Penile Papules Removal Pearly Penile Papules Removal

- Converters to and from RDF ConverterToRdf ConverterFromRdf

another clump, perhaps for RDFApplicationsAndProjects: or two separate clumps: RDFApplications, RDFProjects?

- Semantic Web Applications SeedApplications, SemanticWebUseCases, VocabularyMarket, GeoInfo, ServiceDescription, RestaurantRecommendation Visitier, RdfThesaurus, MultiLingual, MozillaRdf, DmozRdf, RdfCalendar, ImageDescription, ConceptualApplications, SkosDev, http://www.portedeurope.org LSDIS_Lab's ActiveSemanticElectronicMedicalRecord deployed and in use at Athens_Heart_Center, SPARQL Box
- Project Incubators: Path-Rad Correlation
- Usability and HCI: SemanticWebUsability state of the art in HCI/Usability
- RDF vocabularies

    - RdfSchema
    - VocabularyMarket
    - Ontology Dowsing (or how I exhumed the old topic of ontology discovery);
- Design Patterns: PartWhole, InterpretationProperties, DeltaView, RdfSmushing, SemanticWebArchitecture, , SocialMeaning, NaturalLanguageInterfaces, GermanTranslations, TextValues and RdfCoreXmlLiteral, ConfigurationManagement, LargeTripleStores Juristische Übersetzung (and RdfStoreBenchmarking), Contexts, RoleNoun, RDFa
- FAQs , Category:Faq, Dave Beckett's Resource Description Framework (RDF) Resource Guide (is this an FAQ?), Semantic Web FAQ, FaqIdeas (desperately needs refactoring!)
- Serializations of RDF NotationThree, SpotOfDrama (Atom/SOAP/RDF), ExtensibilityFramework or here, PieNt (an alternative serialization of RDF to RdfTriples ), Cerebra Repository (RDF, RDFS, OWL), SimpleRdfXml
- Recent Experiments ASQ, SWAD-Europe work packages: EswWp2, EswWp7 and EswWp10, SemWebSpain, WikiPedia:Massachusetts_Institute_of_Technology 's SIMILE (Semantic Interoperability of Metadata and Information in unLike Environments), SemanticWebEnablingConferences, EdmProofing wholesale Good

http://www.mkbergman.com/287/

Data Harvesting

Linked Data/ Data Conversion / Cleaning
Linked Data

Linked Data is about using the Web to connect related data that wasn't previously linked, or using the Web to lower the barriers to linking data currently linked using other methods.
in alphabetical order:

BibTex

BibTex is the format for bibliographic references in TeX.

- BibBase transforms BibTeX files (given in a URL) into Linked Data with RDF/XML output support.
    - Uses a custom BibTeX ontology but provides a table of mappings to other ontologies
    - Also provides HTML interface and RSS feed
- bibtex2rdf transforms BibTEX files into RDF/XML. (Simile)
- bibtex2rdf - A configurable BibTeX to RDF Converter by Wolf Siberski.
- An online service set up at the Vrije Universiteit in Amsterdam, the Netherlands, following the OntoWeb portal vocabulary. The perl source can also be downloaded.
- Java BibTeX-To-RDF Converter based on the SWRC terminology.

Bittorrent

- http://www.inf.unideb.hu/~jeszy/rdfizers is alas now 404 (in 2007). This was a link from RDFizers but may be incorrect.

CSV (Comma-Separated Values)

See also: Flat Files and TSV

- An RDF Extension is available for Google Refine. It can convert Excel, CSV, and other tabular data to RDF. The schema mapping can be defined in a graphical UI.
- RDF123 has Windows and Linux applications to download, a Java application and servlet.
- XLWrap wraps spreadsheets (including cross tables) to arbitrary RDF graphs; supports Excel/OpenDocument/CSV streamed processing, local/HTTP loading, expressions similar to Excel/OpenOffice Calc, custom functions, usage via API or SPARQL endpoint
- csv2rdf4lod uses declarative RDF enhancement parameters to specify how to transform tabular data into well-structured, well-connected RDF. The tool uses identifiers for source organization, dataset, and version to establish default namespaces for all URIs created and provides VoID and provenance metadata as part of the conversion output.
- Tarql is a command-line application that converts CSV to RDF with a user-defined mapping. The mapping is written in standard SPARQL 1.1.

Debian

The package information in Debian and similar systems (Ubuntu, Fink, etc), with its general usefulness and its graph-like nature, is a clear candidate for conversion to RDF.

See VitaVoni blog about this.

- finkn3.py Takes Fink (OS-X port of Debian packaging) dependencies and converts to to RDF/N3. (SWAP) No idea whether this would be a quick hack to export debian data.
- STEAMY converts Debian packages to RDF.

Email (RFC822 headers)

- email2rdf transforms email mbox files into RDF/XML. (Simile)
- aboutMsg.py converts email metadata to RDF. (SWAP)
- SWAML transforms a mailing list into RDF/XML and XHTML+RDFa using SIOC.
    - And LinkedMarkMail live transforms into RDF/XML the mailing lists' archives indexed by MarkMail.
- Email::MIME::XMTP Perl extension to read and write XMTP
- aperture.sf.net IMAP crawler

There are others in this vein which run over IMAP or mailbox files.@@

Excel

- Cambridge Semantics' Anzo for Excel extracts RDF data from Excel spreadsheets while keeping the spreadsheet in-sync with the underlying data as things change
- XLWrap wraps spreadsheets (including cross tables) to arbitrary RDF graphs; supports Excel/OpenDocument/CSV streamed processing, local/HTTP loading, expressions similar to Excel/OpenOffice Calc, custom functions, usage via API or SPARQL endpoint
- TopBraid Composer can convert Excel spreadsheets into instances of an RDF schema.
- TabLinker can convert non-standard Excel spreadsheets to the Data Cube vocabulary, e.g. Excel files that contain hierarchical information in row and column headers etc.
- NOR2O can convert excel to Scovo and Data Cube Vocabulary.
- Esxcel2rdf is a Microsoft Windows program (exe) that converts Excel files into valid RDF. It has been tested on Windows 98, and Windows 2000 Professional. (MindSwap) Export can be done via comma- or tab- separated values. See Flat Files above.
- aperture.sf.net includes Java crawler for Excel and open document. Does only extract plaintext and basic metadata, though.
- RDBToOnto can handle Excel spreadsheets. See description below under SQL section.

EXIF

See JPEG.

File Systems

- TripFS exposes an entire file system as linked data, tracks changes, and links files to external data sources.

Flickr data

- Dave Becketts flickurl library can access Flickr information (including machine tags) and convert it to RDF

Flat files

See also: CSV and TSV

- flat2rdf converts classic unix text database files, like /etc/passwd, into RDF/N3 (Simile)

Free Text

- SemNova [1] a tool to transform text in RDF

GPS

- garmin2rdf.py Reads a Garmin GOPS receiver, dumping the contents in RDF/XML. (Matt Biddulph)
- fromGarmin.py Downloads GPS data from a Garmin on a serial link to an RDF/N3 file. (SWAP)

iCalendar

iCalendar is an IETF standard for calendar (event and to-do list) data. Icalendar files typically are stored with a .ics extension.

- fromIcal.py converts iCalendar form to RDF
- toIcal.py converts RDF back into iCalendar.
- aperture.sf.net java converter for iCalendar included
- [2] iCal to RDF Service

Java bytecode

- java2rdf scans java bytecode for method calls and creates a description of the dependencies between classes and the package/archive encoded in RDF/N3. (Simile)

Javadoc

- javadoc2rdf is a doclet that makes javadoc output metadata about your code (structure of the classes, methods, comments, etc.) encoded in RDF/N3. (Simile)

Issue tracking: Jira

- jira2rdf transforms Atlassian Jira's events about bug reports and issue tracking into RDF/N3.

JPEG

The metadata within JPEG photo is encoded in the EXIF standard.

- jpeg2rdf scans a folder for JPEG files, parses the EXIF and IPCT metadata found in those files and dumps an RDF/N3 representation of it into a file. (Simile)
- An adapted version of jhead extracts RDF data form the EXIT encoded in JPEG files within a directory. Generates RDF/N3. (SWAP)

LDIF

This is format used for contact information in LDAP server system. It is for example exported by Thunderbird's address-book.

- ldif2n3.py Very incomplete, but useful. Generates foaf. Hides email addresses by hashing in the FOAF style if -m command flag is given. (SWAP)

Makefile

The unix Makefile syntax expresses dependencies between files in a software build.

- make2n3.py Convert the makefiles in several directories in RDF and merge them to get the big picture. (SWAP)

MARC

- marcmods2rdf

transforms MARC records from Z39.2 format into MODS and then from MODS to an RDF representation of MODS.

- MARiMbA is a command-line tool, designed with librarians in mind, to transform MARC (MAchine-Readable Cataloging) records to RDF, following Linked Data best practices.

Meteographical

- Meteo is UK weather forecast data in RDF, extracted from NOAA's public domain GRIB files. Example: London.

Microformats

- Apache Any23 is a Java library web service and command line tool for parsing multiple document formats and extracting structured data in RDF format from a variety of Web documents. It is used by Sindice.com. The microformats support is detailed in the Sindice.com documentation.

Multimedia

Following the DRY principle, a pointer to tools in the realm of multimedia (origin: MMSEM-XG):

- Multimedia Semantics Tools

OAI-PMH

- oai2rdf harvests an OAI-PMH repository and transforms the captured metadata in an RDF representation thru pluggable XSLT stylesheets.

Outlook

Microsoft Outlook contains contact and event data, and so on in a proprietary format.

- Lookout.py convers the Microsoft Outlook calendar and address format into RDF. (SWAP)
- aperture.sf.net includes Java crawler for MS Outlook

Open Financial Exchange (OFX)

OFX is the format for downloaded bank statements and other financial information. There are various levels of OFX, the early ones being HTTP headers followed by SGML, the later ones being HTTP-like headers followed by XML.

- OFX-to-n3.y converts OFX format to RDF/N3. The conversion is only syntactic. The OFX modeling is pretty well thought out, so taking it as defining an RDF ontology seems to make sense. Rules can then be used to define mapping into your favorite ontology.

Open CourseWare

- ocw2rdf harvests metadata from the MIT OpenCourseWare web site and transforms it into an RDF representation of IEEE LOM.

Palm OS

- Palmagent converts the calendar format of PalmOS into RDF. (SWAP)

plist

The Apple OS-X property list (.plist) filetype is an XML fromat for arbitrary structured data. Numeric keys are used as local IDs. OS X applications store many kinds uf data in these files, including configuration data, iPhoto almum and photo data, iTunes metadata, and so on.

To convert plists well, added information is necessary, such as a namespace for the properties.

plist2rdf.xsl is an XSLT script to convert a plist file into RDF/XML. It does not add namespaces to the exported data.

Quicken Interchange Format (QIF)

- qif2n3.py Takes Quicken interchange format and converts to to RDF/N3. (SWAP)

Quick and Dirty CSV to RDF Converter (QUIDICRC)

- quidicrc A perl script for rapidly transferring csv to RDF with some translation in the middle. (not actively being maintained, available open source -- SWAP)

Random

Seriously.

- random2rdf generates synthetic random graphs encoded in RDF/N3.

SDMX

SDMX is an XML-based exchange format for statistical data and metadata, used by major statistics-producing organizations such as Eurostat, the World Bank, OECD, and the IMF.

- Linked SDMX is an XSLT-based converter that turns SDMX data sets and data structure definitions into RDF, using the Data Cube Vocabulary.

Spreadsheet

See #CSV and #Excel.

SQL

SQL databases are rich stores of relational data ideal for export as RDF. Conference tracks and many papers cover this subject from different angles. See also: RdfAndSql

- D2RQ provides a mapping from a SQL server (tested with several brands), producing both linked virtual RDF data files and a SPARQL service. Uses a configuration file in Turtle. (DERI and FU Berlin)
- dbview.py provides a mapping from a SQL server (tested with mySQL), producing linked virtual RDF data files. Uses a configuration file in N3. (SWAP)
- OpenLink Virtuoso's declarative N3/Turtle based Metaschema Language enables the creation of RDF Instance Data for associated RDF Ontologies via RDF VIEWs of ODBC, JDBC, ADO.NET, and OLE-DB accessible SQL Data. It is important to note that these VIEWs also apply to Native Virtuoso Data and/or Heterogeneous Data from other Web Services, HTTP/WebDAV, NNTP, and other Data Sources known to Virtuoso. This is an enhancement of the traditional SQL VIEW concept than enables multiple use of the same base SQL Data from a variety of data access points.
- Triplify is a small plugin for Web applications, which reveals the semantic structures encoded in relational databases by making database content available as RDF, JSON or Linked Data.
- RDBToOnto is a full-fledged conversion tool that can produce accurate RDF/OWL models from various types of relational databases and Excel spreadsheets. The conversion is fully automated while various parameters can be set through the user interface to refine the resulting models (e.g., derivation of rich class hierarchies, proper naming of instances, database optimization before conversion, etc).
- morph or morph implement R2RML and perform a transformation from RDB to RDF.

Some RDF Triple stores are implemented using SQL databases, but that is not covered here.

Subversion

Subversion is a code-management system.

- svn2rdf A pair of scripts; one can be used in a post-commit subversion hook to generate RDF/N3 with each commit, the other on a working copy. (Simile)

TSV (Tab-Separated Values)

See also: Flat Files and CSV

- tab2n3.py Takes Tab-separated text (as typically output by all kinds of things including Microsoft Output and Spreadsheets) and converts it to N3, using the column headings to generate property URIs. (SWAP)
- TopBraid Composer can convert tab-separated spreadsheet files into an RDF/OWL class with corresponding properties and instances.
- XLWrap, [3] wraps CSV files (and spreadsheets) to arbitrary RDF graphs; supports local/HTTP loading, expressions similar to Excel/OpenOffice Calc, custom functions, usage via API or SPARQL endpoint

Talis SW Format Converter

- Talis' converter, convert from various format to various formats (including RDF->RDF with various serializations, RDF->HTML, etc)

UML

- TopBraid Composer can convert UML Class Diagrams (XMI format) into RDF/OWL models.
- EulerGUI is a lightweight IDE that translates on the fly UML and eCore XMI into N3. Moreover there are N3 rules to convert UML to OWL.

VCARD, Addressbook, …

VACRD is a standard for interchange of contact data, such as business cards and address books.

"Representing vCard Objects in RDF/XML" is a W3C note defining an ontology for VCARD. FOAF is widely used ontology covering some of the domain.

- code to convert your Apple Addressbook into FOAF file (Richard Newman)
- ab-foaf does the same.
- XML::FOAFKnows::FromvCard, Perl extension to create FOAF dumps from vCards. Does not attempt to create a full model, just foaf:knows. It also has some privacy features. In addition to the module, which conforms with the Formatter API specification, comes with a command-line tool.

Weather

- weather2rdf Given a US city or ZIP code, retrieves weather report data from weather.com and returns it in RDF. (Simile)

XML

- GRDDL: Any XML files can be marked up with pointers to XSLT files which convert them to RDF. The standard for this is GRDDL. A GRDDL pointer can even be put in an XML schema, so that automatically all XML documents written to that schema will have a defined RDF mapping which any GRDDL-aware processor will benefit from. Several XSLT conversion transformations can be found linked from MicroModels
- Krextor is a framework for extracting RDF in various notations from various XML languages and can easily be extended for additional input languages. Support for RDFa and some mathematical markup languages is built in. The implementation is done in XSLT, with a command-line frontend and a Java wrapper.
- TopBraid Composer can convert XML Schema (and their XML instance files) into RDF/OWL models.
- Rhizomik ReDeFer includes XSD2OWL and XML2RDF plus MPEG-7 to RDF (all XSLT-based)
- XHTML: Convert existing pages to RDF. For example, see HtmlToRdf.
- SPARQL2XQuery The SPARQL2XQuery Framework provides mechanisms for: (a) Query translation (SPARQL to XQuery) (b) Mapping specification & generation (Ontology to XML Schema) (c) Schema transformation (XML Schema to OWL) and (d) Data Transformation (XML to RDF and vice versa)

XMP

XMP is an Adobe-sponsored specification for putting RDF metadata in virtually any form of file, including binary formats. XMP metadata is RDF data in fact, but it has to be extracted from the file.

- xmpextractor extracts XMP data. (Jeszenszky Péter)
- A python script to extract XMP. There is also a service to do that on-line, see separate page

Frameworks

The following are general tools which provide conversion from many formats.

AnnoCultor

AnnoCultor was built during several years of practical work on porting various datasets to RDF. It allows converting data from the following data sources:

- databases via SQL and JDBC;
- XML files, also in batch;
- RDF files,
- Solr servers,
- custom formats, via format-specific parsers written in Java.

AnnoCultor is specifically suited for the situations where XSLT is not sufficient.

It comes with built-in converters for Geonames and Getty vocabularies (AAT, ULAN, TGN), that are ready to use. Several additional specific converters illustrate advanced use: converters for collections of Louvre and Joconde, Institute Collection Netherlands, Dutch Museum of Asian Ceramics, Tropenmuseum Amsterdam.

As part of conversion, AnnoCultor can semantically tag (enrich) data with links to various vocabularies, with advanced customised disambiguation and term processing possibilities. These vocabularies should be represented in RDF or SKOS to be imported via SPARQL queries. AnnoCultor comes with built-in tagging with Geonames and a custom time ontology.

AnnoCultor is written in Java, but conversion rules are written in XML. They are extendible with either small Java snippets, or custom rules implementions in Java. AnnoCultor has been practically used with datasets ranging from a few records to more than ten millions, containing up to dozens fields each.

Apache Any23

Apache Any23 is a Java library web service and command line tool for parsing multiple document formats and extracting structured data in RDF format from a variety of Web documents. Currently it supports the following input formats:

- RDF/XML, Turtle, Notation 3
- RDFa
- Microformats: Adr, Geo, hCalendar, hCard, hListing, hResume, hReview, License, XFN and Species

Apache Any23 is used in major Web of Data applications such as sindice.com and sig.ma.

Aperture

- Aperture is a project written in Java gathering RDF extractors for many formats, mentioned in the list above.

Aperture supports crawling, making it not a converter but a framework to crawl updates of data (like rsync).

PiggyBank

- Piggy-bank is a Simile project which allows the Firefox-based clent to automatically load "RDFizers", javascript-based converters to RDF.

Piggy-bank associates given scarping scripts with given web sites. (How?)

Triplr

Triplr is a general “Stuff in, triples out” system by Dave Beckett. Triplr handles GRDDL, RSS, Atom, and other formats.

Virtuoso Sponger

OpenLink Software via the "Sponger" component of Virtuoso's SPARQL Processor and Proxy Web Service (used by default by OpenLink Data Explorer) provides RDFization for:

- RDFa
- GRDDL
- Amazon Web Services
- eBay Web Services
- Freebase Web Services
- Facebook Web Services
- Yahoo! Finance
- XBRL Instance documents
- DOI (includes a custom resolver for HTTP)
- OAI
- RSS/Atom Feeds
- Digital Music Files (various formats via ID3 Tags)
- Image Files
- vCard
- iCalendar
- Microformats - hCard, hCalendar
- HR-XML Resumes
- Flickr
- Del.icio.us
- Bugzilla
- ODBC or JDBC accessible SQL Data
- Many others

Apache Marmotta LDClient

Apache Marmotta LDClient library is a flexible and modular Linked Data Client (RDFizer) that can be used by any Linked Data project independent of the Apache Marmotta platform. In other words, it provides the infrastructure for retrieving remote resources via different protocols (primarily HTTP) and offers pluggable adapters (called data providers) that wrap other data sources (e.g. YouTube or Facebook) as Linked Data resources by mapping their data to appropriate RDF structures.

It provides several backends with support for:

- different RDF serializations
- XML
- HTML
- RDFa
- Facebook
- Youtube
- Vimeo
- MediaWiki
- PHPbb
- LDAP
- ...

three.js
mrdoob.github.com/three.js | github.com/mrdoob/three.js
Javascript 3D library. The aim of the project is to create a lightweight 3D library with a very low level of complexity — in other words, for dummies. The library provides canvas, svg and WebGL renderers.

tquery
jeromeetienne.github.com/tquery | github.com/jeromeetienne/tquery
tQuery is a thin library on top of three.js It is an extension system for people to write plugins. To help them share their code and build on top of each other. It mimics jquery api, well know for its usuability. tQuery aims for “it is should not be harder than playing with lego bricks.”
https://github.com/dwtkns/srtm-tile-grabber
http://dwtkns.com/srtm/

turn.js

www.turnjs.com | github.com/blasten/turn.js
The awesome paper-like effect made for HTML5. turn.js is a plugin for jQuery that adds a beautiful transition similar to real pages in a book or magazine for HTML5.

Glisse.js

glisse.victorcoulon.fr | github.com/Victa/glisse.js

Glisse.js is a simple, responsive and fully customizable jQuery photo viewer. You’ll like the transitions between two pictures entirely assumed by CSS3.

Hammer.js

eightmedia.github.com/hammer.js | github.com/eightmedia/hammer.js

Hammer.js is a javascript library (that depends on jQuery) that can be used to control gestures on touch devices. It supports the following gestures: Tap, Double tap, Hold, Drag, Transform.

impress.js

bartaz.github.com/impress.js | github.com/bartaz/impress.js
It’s a presentation framework based on the power of CSS3 transforms and transitions in modern browsers and inspired by the idea behind prezi.com.

Morris.js

oesmith.github.com/morris.js | github.com/oesmith/morris.js
Making good-looking graphs shouldn’t be hard. Morris.js is a lightweight library that uses jQuery and Raphaël to make drawing time-series graphs easy.

Timeline

timeline.verite.co | github.com/VeriteCo/Timeline

There are lots of timeline tools on the web but they are almost all either hard on the eyes or hard to use. Create timelines that are at the same time beautiful and intuitive for users. Timeline is great for pulling in media from different sources. Just throw in a link from Twitter, YouTube, Flickr, Vimeo, Google Maps or SoundCloud and Timeline will format it to fit perfectly. More media types will be supported in the future.

Sequence

http://www.sequencejs.com | github.com/IanLunn/Sequence

Sequence is the jQuery slider plugin with infinite style. It provides the complete functionality for a website slider without forcing you to use a set theme.

deck.js

imakewebthings.com/deck.js | github.com/imakewebthings/deck.js
A JavaScript library for building modern HTML presentations. deck.js is flexible enough to let advanced CSS and JavaScript authors craft highly customized decks, but also provides templates and themes for the HTML novice to build a standard slideshow.

portamento.js

simianstudios.com/portamento | github.com/krisnoble/Portamento
Portamento is a jQuery plugin that makes it simple to add sliding (aka “floating”) panel functionality to your web page. All that’s needed is some simple CSS and one line of JavaScript, and you’re away!

zoomooz

janne.aukia.com/zoomooz | github.com/jaukia/zoomooz
Zoomooz is an easy-to-use jQuery plugin for making any web page element zoom.

breakpoints.js

xoxco.com/projects/code/breakpoints | github.com/xoxco/breakpoints
Define breakpoints for your responsive design, and Breakpoints.js will fire custom events when the browser enters and/or exits that breakpoint.

scrollpath

joelb.me/scrollpath | github.com/JoelBesada/scrollpath
jQuery Scroll Path is a plugin that lets you define your own custom scroll path. What this means exactly is best understood by checking out the demo. The plugin uses canvas flavored syntax for drawing paths, using the methods moveTo, lineTo and arc. To help with getting the path right, a canvas overlay with the path can be enabled when initating the plugin.

moment.js

momentjs.com | github.com/timrwood/moment
Moment.js is a lightweight javascript date library for parsing, manipulating, and formatting dates.

Kalendae

chipersoft.github.com/Kalendae | https://github.com/ChiperSoft/Kalendae
A framework agnostic javascript date picker. Kalendae is an attempt to do something that nobody has yet been able to do: make a date picker that doesn’t suck.

sigma.js

sigmajs.org | github.com/jacomyal/sigma.js
Sigma.js is an open-source lightweight JavaScript library to draw graphs, using the HTML canvas element.

Sisyphus.js

simsalabim.github.com/sisyphus | github.com/simsalabim/sisyphus
Developed to save html forms data to LocalStorage to restore them after the browser crashes, tabs close and other disasters.

(via http://themergency.com/awesome-javascript-projects-to-watch-on-github/)

https://github.com/Quartz/Chartbuilder

Network
Visualization

Krackplot
ORA
ORA-GIS
ORA-LOOM
ORA Flash Network Visualizer

aiSee
breve
CamStudio
daVinci
GraphViz
Mage
MatView
NetDraw
NetMiner

Pajek
SoNIA
TouchGraph
VGJ
visone
VisuaLyzer
WilmaScope
yEd
Zoomgraph

https://github.com/usgs
https://github.com/NREL
https://github.com/WhiteHouse
https://github.com/project-open-data
https://github.com/HHS
https://github.com/presidential-innovation-fellows
https://github.com/ozoneplatform
https://github.com/opengovplatform
https://github.com/GSA-OCSIT

https://github.com/clawpack/visclaw

http://www-958.ibm.com/software/data/cognos/manyeyes/

http://www.openheatmap.com/

http://www.pyclimate.org/
http://openlayers.org/
http://www.openstreetmap.org/#map=5/51.495/-0.088

List of Python API’s

Python API’s

Many Internet companies, such as Facebook, Google, and Twitter provides
Application Programming Interfaces (or API's) that you can use to build your
own applications.

An API is a set of  programming instructions and standards for accessing web
based software applications. A wrapper is an API client, that are commonly used
to wrap the API into easy to use functions by doing the API calls itself.

This page provides you with a list of where you can find those API's,
but also a link to its Python wrapper.

For a more comprehensive list, please see http://www.pythonapi.com

Amazon
Amazon Web Services is a collection of remote computing services that together
make up a cloud computing platform, offered over the Internet by Amazon.com

Api Documentation

Python wrapper for Amazon Web Services

Bing
Bing is a search engine that brings together the best of search and people in
your social networks to help you spend less time searching and more time doing.

Api Documentation

Python wrapper for the Bing search API

Bitly
URL shortening and bookmarking service

Api Documentation

Python wrapper around the bit.ly API

Blogger
Blog-publishing service

Api Documentation

A python wrapper around the Blogger

Box
Online file sharing and Cloud content management service for enterprise companies.

Api documentation

Python wrapper for Box.com/.net API

Delicious
Keep, share, and discover the best of the Web using Delicious, the world's
leading social bookmarking service.

Api Documentation

Python wrapper for Del.icio.us

Disqus
Blog comment hosting service

Api Documentation

Disqus API bindings for Python

Dropbox
Free service that lets you bring your photos, docs, and videos anywhere and
share them easily

Api Documentation

Dropbox API wrapper command

Facebook
Facebook is an online social networking service.

Api Documentation

Python wrapper for Facebook

Foursquare
Foursquare is a location-based social networking website for mobile devices,
such as smartphones

Api Documentation

Python wrapper for Foursquare

Ebay
Online auction and shopping website

Api Documentation

Python wrapper for eBay API

Flickr
Image hosting and video hosting website

Api Documentation

A Python library for the Flickr API

Geopy
A Geocoding Toolbox for Python. Official git repo.

Api Documentation

A Geocoding Toolbox for Python

Google Maps
Google Maps is a web mapping service application and technology provided by
Google

Api Documentation

Python wrapper for Google Maps API

Imgur
Simple Image Sharer

Api Documentation

Python wrapper for Imgur

Indeed
Search engine for jobs
Api Documentation

Light wrapper for indeed.com API

Instagram
Online photo-sharing, video-sharing and social networking service that enables its
users to take pictures and videos

Api Documentation

Python Client for Instagram API

Last.fm
The world's largest online music catalogue, powered by your scrobbles.

Api Documentation

"Python wrapper to the last.fm web services API"

Linkedin
World's Largest Professional Network

Api Documentation

Python interface to the LinkedIn API

Loggly
Cloud- based log management service

Api Documentation

Simple library for logging to Loggly

Netflix
On-demand Internet streaming media

Api Documentation

A python API wrapper specificly designed to work with netflix's streaming API

PagerDuty
IT alert monitoring

Api Documentation

Python Library for PagerDuty's v1 REST API.

Photobucket
Cloud- based log management service

Api Documentation

A Python wrapper for the Photobucket API

Pinterest
Pinterest is a pinboard-style photo-sharing website that allows users to create
and manage theme-based image collections such as events, interests, and hobbies.

Api Documentation

Python wrapper for the Pinterest API

Reddit
A social news and entertainment website where registered users submit content
in the form of either a link or a text post

API Documentation

Python Reddit API Wrapper

Rotten Tomatoes
Film review aggregator

API Documentation

Rotten Tomatoes API for Python

Soundcloud
Share your sounds

API Documentation

Python wrapper for Soundcloud

Spotify
Commercial music streaming service

API Documentation

pyspotify provides a Python interface to Spotify's online music streaming service.

Technorati
Technorati is an Internet search engine for searching blogs.

Api Documentation

A Python wrapper for the Technorati API

Twitter
Twitter is an online social networking service and microblogging service that
enables its users to send and read text-based messages of up to 140 characters,
known as tweets

API Documentation

A Python wrapper around the Twitter API

Tumblr
Tumblr, stylized in their logo as tumblr., is a microblogging platform and social
networking website

Api Documentation

Python wrapper for Tumblr API

Vimeo
Video-sharing website on which users can upload, share and view videos

API Documentation

Python module for using Vimeo's API v2

Wikipedia
Wikipedia is a free, web-based, collaborative, multilingual encyclopedia project
supported by the non-profit Wikimedia Foundation.

Api documentation

Python wrapper for Wikipedia

Yahoo
Web portal, search engine Yahoo! Search, and related services, including Yahoo!
Directory, Yahoo! Mail, Yahoo!

API Documentation

A python wrapper around the Yahoo! Weather.

Yelp
Local search website

Api Documentation

A Python wrapper for the Yelp v2.0 API

YouTube
YouTube is a video-sharing website

API Documentation

Python Youtube Data API

CSVKit
DataTables
FreeDive
Highcharts JS
Mr. Data Converter
Panda Project
PowerPivot
Weave

Geosciences¶

- CDAT: (Climate Data Analysis Tools) is a suite of tools for analysis of climate models. CDMS is the most commonly used submodule.
- Jeff Whitaker has made a number of useful tools for atmospheric modelers, including the basemap toolkit for matplotlib, and a NumPy compatible netCDF4 interface.
- seawater is a package for computing properties of seawater (UNESCO 1981 and UNESCO 1983).
- Fluid is a series of routines for calulating properties of fluids (air and seawater), and their interactions (e.g., wind stess).
- atmqty computes atmospheric quantities on earth.
- TAPPy - Tidal Analysis Program in Python decomposes an hourly time-series of water levels into tidal compenents. It uses SciPy’s least squares optimization.
- PyClimate - Analysis of climate data in Python performs EOF analysis, downscaling by means of CCA and analogs (in the PC and CCC spaces), linear digital filters, kernel based probability density function estimation and access to DCDFLIB.C library from Python, amongst many other things.
- ClimPy Hydrologic orientated library
- GIS Python Python programs and libraries for geodata processing

Data visualization (mostly 3-D, surfaces and volumetric rendering)

- MayaVi: a free, easy to use scientific data visualizer. It is written in Python and uses the amazing Visualization Toolkit (VTK) for the graphics. It provides a GUI written using Tkinter. MayaVi supports visualizations of scalar, vector and tensor data in a variety of ways, including meshes, surfaces and volumetric rendering. MayaVi can be used both as a standalone GUI program and as a Python library to be driven by other Python programs.
- Mayavi2 is the successor of MayaVi. It is vastly superior to MayaVi1, has a Pythonic API, supports numpy arrays transparently, provides a powerful application, reusable library and a powerful pylab like equivalent called mlab for rapid 3D plotting.
- visvis: a pure Python library for visualization of 1D to 4D data in an object oriented way. Essentially, visvis is an object oriented layer of Python on top of OpenGl, thereby combining the power of OpenGl with the usability of Python. A Matlab-like interface in the form of a set of functions allows easy creation of objects (e.g. plot(), imshow(), volshow(), surf()).
- Py-OpenDX : Py-OpenDX is a Python binding for the OpenDX API. Currently only the DXLink library is wrapped, though this may be expanded in the future to cover other DX libraries such as CallModule and DXLite.
- Py2DX: Py2DX is a Python binding for the OpenDX API based on Py-OpenDX. Mavis is a visualisation software built using this interfacce and the OpenDX library.(Rjoy)
- IVuPy: (I-View-Py) serves to develop Python programs for 3D visualization of huge data sets using Qt and PyQt. IVuPy interfaces more than 600 classes of two of the Coin3D C++ libraries to Python, integrates very well with PyQt, and is fun to program. Coin3D is a scene graph library, and is optimized for speed. In comparison with VTK, Coin3D is more low level and lacks many of VTK’s advanced visualization and imaging algorithms.
- Pivy is another Coin3D binding for Python. Pivy allows the development of Coin3D applications and extensions in Python, interactive modification of Coin3D programs from within the Python interpreter at runtime and incorporation of Scripting Nodes into the scene graph which are capable of executing Python code and callbacks.
- Mat3D provides a few routines for basic 3D plotting. It makes use of OpenGL and is written in Python and Tk. One can interact (rotate and zoom) with with the generated graph and the view can be saved to an image.
- S2PLOT is a three-dimensional plotting library based on OpenGL with support for standard and enhanced display devices. The S2PLOT library was written in C and can be used with C, C++, FORTRAN and Python programs on GNU/Linux, Apple/OSX and GNU/Cygwin systems. The library is currently closed-source, but free for commercial and academic use. They are hoping for an open source release towards the end of 2008.
- pyqtgraph: Pure-python plotting, 3D graphics (including volumetric and isosurface rendering), and GUI library based on PyQt, python-opengl, and numpy/scipy.

LaTeX, PostScript, diagram generation

- PyX: a package for the creation of encapsulated PostScript figures. It provides both an abstraction of PostScript and a TeX/LaTeX interface. Complex tasks like 2-D and 3-D plots in publication-ready quality are built out of these primitives.
- Pyepix: a wrapper for the ePiX plotting library for LaTeX.
- Dot2TeX: Another tool in the Dot/Graphviz/LaTeX family, this is a Graphviz to LaTeX converter. The purpose of dot2tex is to give graphs generated by Graphviz a more LaTeX friendly look and feel. This is accomplished by converting xdot output from Graphviz to a series of PSTricks or PGF/TikZ commands.
- pyreport: runs a script and captures the output (pylab graphics included). Generates a LaTeX or pdf report out of it, including litteral comments and pretty printed code.

Other 3-D programming tools

- VPython: a Python module that offers real-time 3D output, and is easily usable by novice programmers.
- OpenRM Scene Graph: a developers toolkit that implements a scene graph API, and which uses OpenGL for hardware accelerated rendering. OpenRM is intended to be used to construct high performance, portable graphics and scientific visualization applications on Unix/Linux/Windows platforms.
- Panda3D: an open source game and simulation engine.
- Python Computer Graphics Kit: a collection of Python modules that contain the basic types and functions required for creating 3D computer graphics images.
- PyGeo: a Dynamic 3-D geometry laboratory. PyGeo may be used to explore the most basic concepts of Euclidean geometry at an introductory level, including by elementary schools students and their teachers. But is particularly suitable for exploring more advanced geometric topics — such as projective geometry and the geometry of complex numbers.
- Python 3-D software collection: A small collection of pointers to Python software for working in three dimensions.
- pythonOCC: Python bindings for OpenCascade, a 3D modeling & numerical simulation library. (Related projects)
- PyGTS: a python package used to construct, manipulate, and perform computations on 3D triangulated surfaces. It is a hand-crafted and pythonic binding for the GNU Triangulated Surface (GTS) Library.
- pyFormex: a program for generating, transforming and manipulating large geometrical models of 3D structures by sequences of mathematical operations.

Any-dimensional tools

- SpaceFuncs: a tool for 2D, 3D, N-dimensional geometric modeling with possibilities of parametrized calculations, numerical optimization and solving systems of geometrical equations with automatic differentiation.
- pyqtgraph: Pure-python plotting, graphics, and GUI library based on PyQt and numpy/scipy. Includes tools for display and manipulation of multi-dimensional image data.

Code for Humidity sensor + CO2 sensor + Arduino + Arduino SD Shield
http://itp.nyu.edu/physcomp/sensors/Reports/MG811

HARDWARE

http://itp.nyu.edu/physcomp/sensors/Reports/Reports
Environmental Sensors

- Vortex Wind Speed Sensor. An anemometer is a wind speed guage that works by counting the number of revolutions per second of a fan blade mounted vertically on a shaft. Original report by Stephen Schaum
- TWG-12 Tide and Wave Guage Summary -Stephen Schaum. This report contains no examples.
- Humidity sensor Resistive humidity sensors measure the change in electrical impedance of a temperature and humidity-sensitive medium. Original report by Keunyoung Oh, with many code samples.
- LM34 temperature sensor Original report by Hsiao-Ho Hsu
- Gas Sensors Volatile Organic Compound sensors measure the concentration of carbon-based gases in the atmosphere around the sensor. They're used for breathalyzers, pollution monitoring, and more. Original report by Jen Kirchherr, with excellent details and testing.
- DS1631 Digital Thermometer/Thermosat - digital temperature sensor with a 2-wire serial interface. No code samples, no examples. Original report by Zach Eveland
- Temperature_Sensor - temperature sensor Jeungah Kim
- Sharp Dust/Smoke Sensor - Optical particle sensor- Full report by Evrim Sahin
- UV Tron flame detector sensor - ultraviolet light detector made by HAMAMATSU PHOTONICS - report by Shin-Yi Huang
- Dallas Semiconductor DS18B20 Digital Thermometer - Direct-to-Digital One-Wire (tm) Temperature IC
- Thermistor 10K - 10K thermistor with a negative temperature coefficient. Good choice for temp-sensing applications. . Datasheet report by Merche Blasco?
- TMP 36 by Luca Shapiro and Manuela Donoso
- Humidity sensor HIH-4030 by Luca Shapiro and Manuela Donoso
- TMP 102 - Surface-mount digital (I2C) temperature sensor - by Noah Crowley

Vision, Light, Color Sensors

- Linksprite JPEG Color Camera is a small camera that you can connect to usb serial interfaces, such as Arduino.Mustafa Bagdatli
- TSL230R TSL230R is a programmable light frequency IC that gives pulses which are related to light intensity. Mustafa Bagdatli
- TAOS TCS230 summary The TAOS TCS230 Programmable Color Light-To-Frequency Converter converts light to frequency. Original report by Spencer Kiser- updated by MV Carbon 2012 Spencer Kiser MV Carbon
- TAOS TSL230R In the same family as the TCS230, the TSL230R Light-To-Frequency Converter also converts light to frequency. report by Zach Layton
- Polycrystalline Solar Cell Original report by Marta Lwin.
- CMOS Imaging Sensor - Daniel Bartolini
- Hamamatsu Photo Reflector Sensor - David Bamford
- LED as Photodiode By reversing power and ground pins, a LED can be used as a photodiode. Reporter : Guy Lee
- TAOS TSL201R-LF Linear Sensor Array - Datasheet Summary -chris kucinski
- Sony EXview HAD CCD low light imaging sensor - Datasheet Summary -Ed Purver
- TAOS TSL13S Light-to-Voltage Converter - Sensor Report -chris kucinski
- Sony CCD in Imaging Source video camera - Sensor Report -Ed Purver
- QTI Line Sensor - Raphael Zollinger
- Phototransistors vs. Photocells -Overview and comparison of two common light sensors - Lori
- Homemade Color Sensor - Making your own color sensor using an RGB LED and a Photo Cell - Steve?
- Microsoft Kinect - Hacking the Microsoft Kinect for OSX and Windows - Lily Szajnberg and Erica Newman?
- Adafruit TSL2561 - Adafruit TSL2561 Full Spectrum Light Sensor- Zevensuy Rodriguez?
- HDJD-S822 Color Sensor Breakout -Sparkfun Color Sensor Breakout. Manuela Donoso
- TTL Serial JPEG Camera with NTSC Video -Adafruit NTSC camera. Melissa dela Merced

Gas, Liquid flow, pressure sensors

- Spirometers are devices used to measure the volume of air inhaled or exhaled by the lungs. The device uses differential pressure transducers to measure the flow rates or the amount of air breathed in or out in a given duration of time. Original report by Shagun Singh
- C7195A Water Flow Sensor summary Original summary by Marta Lwin. This report contains no examples.
- Silicon Pressure Sensor Silicon Pressure Sensor. Datasheet summary by Rebecca Bray.
- Tsunami Pressure Sensor SBE 54. This is the Datasheet Report. Summary and Info by Benedetta Piantella.
- Tsunameter System. Full report on the Tsunameter System like the DART System by NOAA. Summary and Info by Benedetta Piantella.
- MQ135 Gas Sensor by Luca Shapiro and Manuela Donoso
- MQ3 Gas Sensor - Alcohol Sensor Report by Eun Jung Park
- MG8 11 C02 Gas Sensor by Melissa dela Merced and Mónica Bate
- MpXx5050 Freescale semiconductor pressure sensor-Hanny Ahern
- E-Tape Liquid Level Sensor

Acoustic Sensors

- LDTM-028K Piezo When the piezo film is bent from the mechanical neutral axis, a very high strain within the piezo polymer is created and generates a high voltage. Original report by Erin Kim

Microphones as sensors

- Microphones as sensors - Microphones are so common as to be overlooked as sensors, this report looks at the basics and also briefly at op amps -David Bamford
- Triangulation of Sound - Microphones as directional sensors. Rucyl Mills
- Condenser microphones-How to get good values Original report by Soyoung Park

Motion Detectors

Large body motion detectors

- PIR Sensor Original report by Sunghun Kim
- ePIR Original report by Luca Shapiro
- Photocell Original summary by Diane Thomas
- Break-beam Sensor Diane made her own photoelectric eye sensors with photodiode receivers and laser beams. Original report by Diane Thomas
- PIR Motion Sensor by Anaid
- Microsoft Kinect Controller-free gaming means full body play. Kinect responds to how you move. So if you have to kick, then kick. If you have to jump, then jump. You already know how to play. All you have to do now is to get off the couch.. Reporter : Tony Lim

Rotary and small motion detectors

- Rotary Encoder A rotary encoder is used to measure rotation and provide a digital output. It looks just like a potentiometer but can spin freely in both directions. Original report by John Schimmel
- Hall Effect Data Sheet Using a magnet attached to the back of the sensor, the hall effect detects the magnetic field perpendicular to the supply voltage. original summary by John Schimmel. This report contains no examples.
- Hall Effect, Direction-Detection Data Sheet Unlike a regular hall effect sensor, this one is capable of sensing the direction of rotation of a ring magnet. Original summary by Joey Guerrero
- Nubotics WW-02-WheelWatcher Encoder The Nubotics WW-02-WheelWatcher Encoder is an optical quadrature encoder that senses direction, distance, velocity and acceleration. It is manufactured by Nubotics and sold by acroname for robotics for a single wheel for $21.95 or as a two wheel set for $41.95. Summary by Wlodek Koss
- Inductive 3 wire DC Proximity Sensors These sensor generate an electromagnetic field to sense metal objects passing close to its face. Raphael Zollinger
- Rotary Encoder Using Paul Stoffregen's Encoder library This library makes it easy to interface Rotary Encoders with the Arduino Zevensuy Rodriguez?

Distance Ranging Sensors

- GP2D120 Sharp IR Sensor An Infrared (IR) ranger detects changes in distance to an object and outputs an analog voltage corresponding to how close or far away the object is to the sensor. Original report by Paul Feder
- Acuity AccuRange4000 Laser range finder Summary A laser range finder measures distance by hitting a distant target with a laser beam and measuring the time of flight of the reflected beam. Original summary by Stephen Schaum. This summary contains no examples.
- Sonar Ranger The Devantech sonar ranger is a fascinating tool, can be a bit frustrating, but does provide an interesting way to consider multiple sensor arrays to "image" a room. Original report by Daniel Bartolini, YiSeul Park
- Multi-Echo SensComp 6500 Range Sensor -Preston Noon
- Maxbotix Sonar Ranger Maxbotix Sonar Ranger This is a brand new sonar range finder that offers very short to long range detection and ranging, and gives analog, serial and pulse width output. Datasheet summary by Rebecca Bray.
- Parallax PING))) Ultrarsonic Distance Sensor The Parallax ultrasonic distance sensor reads the distance from the object in front. Datasheet analyzed by Joo Youn Paek.
- QRD114 IR Sensor QRD1114 is an unfocused Infrared Reflective Photo Detector. It's used when you need to detect a surface transition without touching it. Reporter : Guy Lee
- SLOAN )))™ Optima exposed Flushometers offer the ultimate in flushing technology with the Optima EL-1500 infrared sensor, which adapts to its surrounding. Once the user enters the sensor's effective range and then steps away, the Flushometer solenoid automatically initiates the flush cycle. Reporter : Tony Lim

Weather sensors:

Anemometers:

- http://www.secondwind.com/products/sensors.shtml
- http://www.weathershop.com/davis_anemometer.htm

A kit of various sensors

- http://www.weathershop.com/davis_wxwiz3.htm

Integrated Weather Sensor Systems

- http://secure.sciencecompany.com/Home-Weather-Stations-C570.aspx
- http://www.scientificsales.com/weather-stations-s/1.htm
- Weather Wizard III

Open Data Kit (ODK) is a free and open-source set of tools to help create mobile data collection services.

http://earth.google.com/outreach/tutorial_odk_gettingstarted.html
http://code.google.com/p/opendatakit/
http://code.google.com/p/solr-php-client/
http://drupal.org/project/apachesolr

AT&T Open Source Software

AST: Advanced Software Technologies Open Source Collection

CDT: Container Data Types Library

ECharts: A state machine-based programming language

FastRWeb: FastRWeb is an infrastructure for web-based reporting, data analysis and visualization using R.

GGobi: Data visualization for high-dimensional data

GSDjVu/DjVuDigital: Ghostscript driver to convert PS and PDF files to DjVu files

Graphviz: Tools for viewing and interacting with graph diagrams

Nanocubes: Fast Visualization of Large Spatiotemporal Datasets

Natural Voices: A text-to-speech synthesizer

PADS: Processing Arbitrary Data Streams

Rserve: Rserve is a client/server infrastructure allowing the use of R from a large number of languages and environments.

Sfio: Portable library for performing I/O

Spatial Index Library: Generic main memory and disk based storage managers

UWIN: Unix on Windows 95 and NT Machines

Vcodex: Software package for data transformation

WATSON: A package for speech recognition, language modeling, voice biometrics and building of speech-based services.

WSP: Web Scraping Proxy

Yoix: The Yoix Scripting Language and Interpreter

dss: dss (data stream scan) is a framework for describing, transforming, reading, querying, and writing streams of record oriented data.

fastshp: Tools for manipulation of shapefiles, optimized for speed in order to handle very large shapefiles (such as complete TIGER/Line databases).

iPlots eXtreme: High-performance interactive graphics for the analysis of big data.

iPlots: Interactive graphics for data analysis in R

iv: iv is a fast software implementation of the IPv4 and IPv6 LPM (longest prefix match) algorithms.

jSPaRKy: jSPaRKy v2.0 is a freely-available sentence planner implemented in Java.

ksh: KornShell Command and Programming Language

lpm: lpm is a fast software implementation of the IPv4 LPM (longest prefix match) algorithm.

snippets: A collection of R tools frequently used with AT&T data, such as plotting data on maps, word clouds, recursive plot layout, smart labels etc.

vmalloc: Region Memory Allocator

http://www.stat.yale.edu/~jay/EC2/

Soft Phones (Open Source)

Where the software source code is available for users to use, redistribute and modify.

Model

Description

ActXPhone

An ActiveX-Control SIP Softphone.

Coccinella

A Multi Platform XMPP Client with whiteboard written in Tcl/Tk. Since version 0.96.19 with enabled IAX2 phone.

Ekiga

SIP, H.323 audio and video softphone for various linux, solaris, windows, and various unix systems. Formerly GnomeMeeting

Homer

Cross-platform SIP based video/audio conferencing with streaming support.

IAXComm

IAX2 softphone for Windows, Linux & MacOSX using IAXClient.

iDoubs

SIP 3GPP IMS softphone for iOS (iPhone, iPad and iPod Touch)

IMSDroid

SIP 3GPP IMS softphone for Android.

Jitsi

SIP Java based softphone (formerly called SIP Communicator).

JsPhone

Java SIP softphone with video support.

Kiax

IAX softphone for Linux using QT (runs well also on GNOME), ported to Windows (QT4).

KPhone

SIP softphone for KDE.

JPhone

Juphoon open source business softphone SDK support Linux, Windows, Threax and more OS.

Linphone

Video softphone for Linux/Windows/MacOS, available also for mobiles: Android, iOS.

macPhone

Zero Config SIP softphone for Mac, based on Telephone.

MicroSIP

Lightweight SIP softphone based on PJSIP stack for Windows OS written in C++. SIMPLE IM and Presense.

MozPhone

IAX addon. Text and URL support, and manager interface. http://moziax.mozdev.org>MozIAX

OpenPhone

OpenH323.

OpenSoftphone

Simple SIP softphone based on PjSip.

Peers

Minimalist SIP softphone written in Java. Tested on Linux and Windows. ITU G.711.

QuteCom

Linux, MacOSX, and Windows software with voice, video, and instant messaging - old name: OpenWengo

SFLphone

Multiplatform softphone from Savoir-faire Linux, SIP, IAX.

Shtoom

SIP softphone written in Python. Runs on Windows, Mac, Linux.

sipXezPhone

"sipX easy phone", a SIP softphone bassed on sipXtapi.

sipXphone

SIP softphone from SIPfoundry, previously known as the Pingtel phone.

Telephone

SIP softphone for Mac OS X written in Objective-C/Cocoa.

Twinkle

SIP softphone for Linux.

wxCommunicator

SIP Windows, C++, based on sipXtapi.

YakaPhone

Simple, skinnable IAX/IAX2 and SIP softphone from YakaSoftware.

Web Phones

A web phone is an IP telephone in software that can be integrated easily into a webpage. It can be an activeX, a flash client, a java applet. Web phone is a class of Soft phones. It requires appropriate security right to be started into a web browser. Web phone are very simple to use as the configuration is performed automatically on web server side !

- Anveo Communicator is full featured Adobe AIR based web phone and it can installed on a PC or used from a web browser. Features include: HD Voice, FREE Video Calls, FREE Audio Calls, FREE chat, Video and Audio Group Calls, Make Phone Calls, Answer Phone Calls. It also includes business essential features such as: Desktop Sharing, Business Grade XMPP based IM, Voicemail, Integration with Anveo Visual Call Flow, ability to monitor calls of employees and more!
- Browser Phone - A java applet based webphone for voip service providers by Mizutech. Includes G.729, wideband codecs, encryption, IM and custom skins
- Doddle - Free Online SIP Web Phone - Doddle Free Online SIP webphone that you can embed on your webpage (webphone or call me button)
- Java Web Phone - Online SIP java webphone which can be embeded on your webpage (call-me button)
- Next - Click2Call - SIP based Click2Call application.
- Telesis WebPhone - SIP client applet hosted in Telesis IP PBX systems. The applet can be run from any Java enabled web browser.
- JsSIP - "The JavaScript SIP Library", a pure JavaScript SIP stack using the SIP WebSocket Transport for signaling and WebRTC for audio/video. JsSIP page in voip-info: JsSIP.

Audio

- is-phone click2connect from iscoord: SIP based instant-call feature for websites based on activeX or Java. Free trial

Video

- http://www.ives.fr/ - SIP-based IMS capable Softphone offering Audio+Video, MCU, multiparty conference, IM, presence High quality audio and video codecs (h264, h263, h263+, G729, ...). Interoperability guaranty by IVÃ¨S infrastructure.
- http://mail.google.com/videochat - Gmail video chat - Web video phone integrated directly into gmail
- is-phone click2connect from iscoord: SIP based instant-call feature for websites based on activeX or Java.
- Video phones - complete line of unlocked video phones
- Video phones Video

Soft Phone Libraries

These are software libraries that software developers can use to build IP telephones.

- ageet microSIP stack by ageet Corporation Commercial SIP protocol stack / VoIP SDK in C++
- amsip SDK Windows/Linux,/Macosx/Win CE pocket PC/smartphone - commercial license also available from ANTISIP
- Database Systems Corp. Interactive Voice Response - software library including ACD software and IVR software API's.
- dynamicsoft AppEngine Commercial SIP App Framework
- dynamicsoft SIP User Agent Commercial SIP protocol stack. Java or C++
- eXosip The eXtended oSIP library - GPL - Windows/Linux,/Macosx/Win CE pocket PC/smartphone- support/commercial license also available from ANTISIP
- IAXClient IAX protocol library (cross-platform)
- Java SIP library Source Forge effort
- JPhone Juphoon C99 SIP, XML SDK etc, support voice, video, flexible media engine, support windows XP/CE/Mobile, linux, threadx etc.
- M5T SIP Client Engine SDK Portable high-level C++ APIs to create VoIP device.
- mediastreamer2 a full-featured audio & video streaming toolkit
- NIST SIP Java SIP Library
- oSIP The GNU oSIP library - LGPL - Windows/Linux,/Macosx/Win CE pocket PC/smartphone - support/commercial license also available from ANTISIP
- PCBest Network SIP ActiveX and SDK PCBest Networks provides SIP SDK and ActiveX for commercial customers and business.
- PJProject SIP and RTP libraries
- Smeet SDK Windows, Linux, H.323, SIP, MPEG-4, H.264, H.263+, AMR, Speex, iLBC, etc.
- VOVIDA SIP VOVIDA SIP stack
- Wolfgang Hatzinger ActiveX-control Softphone An ActiveX-Control SIP Softphone based on the Microsoft Real Time Communications (RTC) API
- See Also: Protocol Stacks and Development Services

Prominent Open Source Projects

- Gollum: A simple, Git-powered wiki with a sweet API and local frontend.
- Jekyll: A simple, blog aware, static site generator (used for this site).
- God: Ruby process monitoring framework with easy extensibility.
- Grit: Object oriented Ruby bindings for Git (used by GitHub).
- Ernie: Ruby/Erlang Hybrid BERT-RPC server.
- ProxyMachine: Layer 7 routing proxy in Ruby with Event Machine.
- Primer: JavaScript based Flash-like API layered on top of Canvas.
- Chronic: Ruby natural language date/time parser.

UU-UNO Climate
Change Task...

- What we can do
(mitigation)

    - Finance, Energy,
Peace, Food...

- Inter-Govt.
Climate Action

    - Countries -
Climate Action

- Events for
Climate Change

    - Minister, Social
Action, You...

- UU-UNO Climate
Action

    - Various groups -
climate action

- Library and
Links

- Search the
Climate Portal

Social Action Column

Climate Action Team Blog

Published: November 10, 2013, 1:12 pm

Topics:

What's NEW here? Check it out!
Various groups - climate action
UU Partners - climate action
More

UU CLIMATE ACTION TEAMS BLOG

PLEASE SHARE YOUR ACTIVITIES WITH OTHERS

For information on how to start your own UU Climate Action Team (CAT) click HERE.

To register your CAT click HERE.

To post something, join the Climate Portal.

-----------

From Doug Stewart, UU-UNO Climate Advisory Group, here is a great outline on advice for CATs to be successful:

Climate Action Team skills Doug Stewart .pdf

Citation

(2013). Climate Action Team Blog. Retrieved from http://climate.uu-uno.org/view/blog/51cbfbbf7896bb431f6c04d0

http://climate.uu-uno.org/topics/view/51cbfc5ef702fc2ba8124b49/
Peace, National Security, and Climate Change

This topic discusses climate change, peace, and national security issues. Mitigation of climate change and global warming is directly tied to the maintenance of peace. In the absence of substantial mitigating action, climate change is expected to lead increasingly to severe food and water shortages in many areas, in addition to coastal flooding, leading to mass migrations and increased conflicts. That is, unchecked global warming will increasingly lead to the breakdown of peace, and threats to national and international security. Here are some examples:

- Unchecked climate change is expected to produce mass migrations of millions of people and increasing armed conflict, see HERE.

- It is thought that the Darfur conflict was partly caused by the drying up of water supplies, see HERE.

- See HERE for a report on climate change and national security from the U.S. Defense Department.

- HERE is a report of the talk on climate and national security given by Rear Admiral Titley, head of the Navy's Task Force on Climate Change, at Copenhagen.

- HERE is a more recent presentation by Rear Admiral Titley.

- HERE is a presentation "Climate Change and (Inter)National Security" made to the NGO Committee on Disarmament, Peace and Security by Jan Dash.

------------------

Watch this one-minute VIDEO from VoteVets.org. Brigadier General Steven Anderson (Ret.) backs clean energy legislation, saying it is not just a military mission, it's an American mission.

—————————


http://climate.uu-uno.org/topics/view/51cbfc72f702fc2ba8128ce2/

Climate Resources for Teachers

Teaching resources for climate change / global warming

- New US Science Standards include Climate Change and Weather

- World Wildlife Federation Climate Curriculum and Lesson Plans

- NOAA teaching resources and presentation

- CAMEL Climate Teaching Resources

- What 4 Degrees Temperature Increase Means for the World

- Climate Change Wildlife Toolkit

- AAAS Resources for Teachers

- Educational Resources from U.S. Climate Action Report

- UN Climate Information Kit

- ACE (Alliance for Climate Education)

- Automated Timeline of the Earth and Climate Change

- How does the Greenhouse Effect Work?

- Climate Education and Resources from the Will Steger Foundation

- Brookings Institute Approach to Climate Education

- Resources on the UU-UNO Climate Portal (this site)

-------------------

New US Science Standards include Climate Change and Weather

The Next Generation Science Standards NGSS guidelines for US Science teaching explicitly include climate change and weather at all grade levels K-12. HERE is an article.

-----------

The World Wildlife Federation WWF has a Climate Curriculum. The lesson plans are HERE.

Go to top of page

------------------

Also, why not try this great NOAA Teaching Resources site?

HERE is the NOAA Climate Program Office Education and Climate Literacy link. HERE is a videotaped talk to teachers about teaching climate literacy, at a Fermilab Global Warming Summit in 2008 by Dr. Frank Niepold.

HERE is Dr. Niepold's Powerpoint presentation.

Go to top of page

------------------

CAMEL Climate Teaching Resources

Here is the RSS feed from a great website, www.camelclimatechange.org

CAMEL means Climate Adaptation Mitigation E-Learning

The CAMEL (Climate Adaption Mitigation E-Learning) project aspires to create an online learning community which will generate and use high-quality curricular materials about climate change and climate change solutions.  This work is being developed in partnership with NCSE’s Encyclopedia of Earth. This study is funded by the National Science Foundation, Award 0950396.

n.b. picture from Wikipedia

Go to top of page

-------------

The impact of a global temperature rise of 4ºC (7 ºF)

The impacts of climate change will be widespread across the globe. In order to understand more about what the human impact of high-end climate change might be, and therefore what would happen if a successful agreement can not be reached at Copenhagen, the UK's Met Office Hadley Centre has produced a map outlining some of the impacts that may occur if the global average temperature rises by 4 °C (7 °F) above the pre-industrial climate average. The map represents the latest peer-reviewed science on the impacts.

Using the map: This interactive version of the 4 degree map allows you to select which impacts you want to see, zoom on specific geographies and access more information about the science behind the map.

- Launch the interactive full screen map

Go to top of page

------------------

And HERE is a new Climate Change, Wildlife and Wildlands Toolkit for Formal and Informal Educators from the US Global Change Research Program.

Go to top of page

------------------

And from the AAAS Resources for Teachers:

- Communicating and Learning About Global Climate Change: An Abbreviated Guide for Teaching Climate Change, from Project 2061 at AAAS.

- AAAS Climate Change Movie: “Communicating and Learning About Global Climate Change,” AAAS's new 12-minute video on climate change, can be viewed online as RealVideo or downloaded as Windows Media.

- Cutting Carbon Emissions: The Stabilization Wedge game, a unique, hands-on learning tool, helps students learn the impacts of different strategies for reducing greenhouse gases.

Go to top of page

------------------

From the U.S. Climate Action Report (2010) here is a great document that has a long list of educational resources for climate teaching in Table 9-1: Federal climate change programs grouped by primary audience:

9. Education, Training and Outreach

[Fifth National Communication of the United States of America Under the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change]

Go to top of page

------------------

UN Climate Information Kit

This UN CLIMATE INFORMATION KIT is an excellent resource for information on climate change from the United Nations, World Meteorological Organization, and five other international agencies. The 63-page guide (downloads in pdf) is clearly written in plain English, and offers comprehensive information on the science of global climate change, potential impacts, adaptation and mitigation strategies, and policies. This policy emphasis - what the world is doing about climate change - sets this material apart. Data charts, including greenhouse gas emissions and their sources, are another useful feature. This thorough guide was updated in the summer of 2001 with information from the latest reports of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), the leading authority on the subject. Note: International units are used in this guide, so take this opportunity to familiarize your students with converting degrees Celsius to Fahrenheit and metric measurements to English ones (e.g., meters to feet).

Go to top of page

------------------

ACE ( Alliance for Climate Education)

Our mission is to educate high school students on the science behind climate change and inspire them to take action to curb the causes of global warming.

Educate high school students about climate change science via our free multimedia assemblies

Inspire students to lower your emissions and raise your voice

Take Action through carbon-reducing projects in schools and communities, with grant and scholarship opportunities.

Here is a short VIDEO:

Go to top of page

------------------

HERE is an interesting automated timeline about the earth and climate change, alongside events in human history.

Go to top of page

------------------

And from the Kids site at the US Energy Information Administration, HERE is a great description of Greenhouse Effect and how it affects the earth:

Go to top of page

------------------

HERE is a great video on climate education for teachers at the Will Steger Foundation. HERE are ready-to-go teacher resources for teaching about climate change.

Go to top of page

------------------

Brookings Institute Approach to Climate Education

The Brookings Institute has an approach of Combating Climate Change through Quality Education. HERE is their paper. The site says:

There is a clear education agenda in climate change adaptation and mitigation strategies, which require learning new knowledge and skills and changing behaviors in order to reduce the vulnerabilities and manage the risks of climate change...The brief presents a framework for the existing communities of practice to  mobilize around in order to promote education for sustainable development and also integrate disaster risk reduction, quality learning, and environmental and climate change education.

Go to top of page

------------------

The UU-UNO Climate Portal you are reading has lots of teaching resources

- There are links on the Kids' Climate Change Corner - click HERE, and many links to other climate sites - click HERE.

- Great content for teaching is in the videos, articles, news items, events, and blogs.

- Of special interest are the topical RSS news feeds that automatically bring in up-to-date information.

- HERE is information for college-level on-line climate courses.

- Click on the buttons to the left to go to Education and the IPCC, What About the Contrarians,  columns for Ministers, Social Action and Youth and What we can do to mitigate Global Warming.

5 Ways to Save,
Today + Tomorrow

ENERGY SAVERS GUIDE

This guide shows you how easy it is to cut your energy use at home and also on the road.

 EnergySavers: Tips on Saving Money and Energy at Home

LIGHTING TIP CARD

 lighting_tip_card_lores.pdf

http://www.energystar.gov/ia/products/images/Heating_infographic.jpg

Save Energy @ Home Tool

Take a room-by-room tour of ENERGY STAR @ home and learn what you can do this spring to save energy, save money and help protect our environment in your own home.
http://www.energystar.gov/index.cfm?fuseaction=popuptool.atHome

Using Your Programmable Thermostat

This video teaches you to properly use your programmable thermostat.

Do it yourself

Change your air filter regularly

Check your filter every month, especially during heavy use months (winter and summer). If the filter looks dirty after a month, change it.

- At a minimum, change the filter every 3 months. A dirty filter will slow down air flow and make the system work harder to keep you warm or cool - wasting energy.
- A clean filter will also prevent dust and dirt from building up in the system - leading to expensive maintenance and/or early system failure.

Tune up your HVAC equipment yearly

Just as a tune-up for your car can improve your gas mileage, a yearly tune-up of your heating and cooling system can improve efficiency and comfort. Learn more:Maintain your Equipment: A Checklist

Install a programmable thermostat

A programmable thermostat is ideal for people who are away from home during set periods of time throughout the week. Through proper use of pre-programmed settings, a programmable thermostat can save you about $180 every year in energy costs.

Seal your heating and cooling ducts

Ducts that move air to-and-from a forced air furnace, central air conditioner, or heat pump are often big energy wasters. Sealing and insulating ducts can improve the efficiency of your heating and cooling system by as much as 20 percent - and sometimes much more.

Focus first on sealing ducts that run through the attic, crawlspace, unheated basement, or garage. Use duct sealant (mastic) or metal-backed (foil) tape to seal the seams and connections of ducts. After sealing the ducts in those spaces, wrap them in insulation to keep them from getting hot in the summer or cold in the winter. Next, look to seal any other ducts that you can access in the heated or cooled part of the house. See our See our Duct Sealing brochure

 (1.13MB) for more information.

How I Cut My Energy Bill By a Third with Tech and Common Sense
http://lifehacker.com/5823225/how-i-cut-my-energy-bill-by-a-third-with-tech-and-common-sense

What You Can Do: At Home

Related Links

- ENERGY STAR
- EPA's Reduce, Reuse, and Recycle
- EPA's WaterSense program
- EPA's GreenScapes program
- EPA's Household Emissions Calculator

Printable Version: What You Can Do at Home (PDF) (1 pg., 216 KB, About PDF)

Did You Know?

Flex Fuel Vehicles are specially-designed to run on either traditional gasoline or a blend of 85% ethanol and 15% gasoline known as "E-85." E-85 reduces GHG emissions by 20%. FFVs are available to consumers in a range of models at no extra cost.

Making a few small changes in your home and yard can reduce greenhouse gases and save you money. Explore our list of 10 simple steps you can take to reduce greenhouse gas emissions:

1. Change five lights

Replace your five most frequently used light fixtures or the lightbulbs in them withENERGY STAR® qualified products and you will help the environment while saving $70 a year on energy bills. ENERGY STAR lighting provides bright, warm light; generates 75% less heat; uses about 75% less energy than standard lighting; and lasts from 10 to 50 times longer.

2. Look for ENERGY STAR

When buying new products for your home, look for EPA's ENERGY STAR label to help you make the most energy-efficient decision. You can find the ENERGY STARlabel on more than 60 kinds of products, including appliances, lighting, heating and cooling equipment, electronics, and office equipment. Over their lifetime, products in your home that have earned the ENERGY STAR label can reduce greenhouse gas emissions by about 130,000 pounds and save you $11,000 on energy bills.

3. Heat and cool smartly

Heating and cooling accounts for almost half your energy bill--about $1,000 a year! There is a lot you can do to drive down this cost. Simple steps like changing air filters regularly, properly using a programmable thermostat, and having your heating and cooling equipment maintained annually by a licensed contractor can save energy and increase comfort, while helping to protect the environment. Depending on where you live, you can cut your annual energy bill by more than $200 by replacing your old heating and cooling equipment with ENERGY STAR-qualified equipment.

4. Seal and insulate your home

Reduce air leaks and stop drafts by using caulk, weather stripping, and insulation to seal your home's envelope and add more insulation to your attic to block out heat and cold. A knowledgeable homeowner or skilled contractor can save up to 20% on heating and cooling costs and significantly enhance home comfort with comprehensive sealing and insulating measures.

5. Reduce, reuse, recycle

Reducing, reusing, and recycling in your home helps conserve energy and reduces pollution and greenhouse gas emissions from resource extraction, manufacturing, and disposal. If there is a recycling program in your community, recycle your newspapers, beverage containers, paper, and other goods. Also, composting your food and yard waste reduces the amount of garbage that you send to landfills and reduces greenhouse gas emissions. Visit EPA's Individual WAste Reduction Model (iWARM) to learn about the energy benefits of recycling, rather than landfilling, common waste products.

6. Use water efficiently

It takes lots of energy to pump, treat, and heat water, so saving water reduces greenhouse gas emissions. Saving water around the home is simple. Three percent of the nation's energy is used to pump and treat water so conserving water conserves energy that reduces greenhouse gas pollution. Reduce the amount of waste you generate and the water you consume whenever possible. Pursue simple water-saving actions such as not letting the water run while shaving or brushing teeth and save money while conserving water by using products with the WaterSense label. Did you know aleaky toilet can waste 200 gallons of water per day? Repair all toilet and faucet leaks right away. Running your dishwasher only with a full load can save 100 pounds of carbon dioxide and $40 per year. Be smart when irrigating your lawn or landscape. Only water when needed, and do it during the coolest part of the day; early morning is best. See EPA's WaterSense site for more water saving tips.

7. Be green in your yard

Composting your food and yard waste reduces the amount of garbage that you send to landfills and reduces greenhouse gas emissions. EPA's GreenScapes program provides tips on how to improve your lawn or garden while also helping the environment.

8. Purchase green power

Power your home by purchasing green power. Green power is environmentally friendly electricity that is generated from renewable energy sources such as wind and the sun. There are two ways to use green power: You can buy green power, or you can modify your house to generate your own green power. Buying green power is easy. It offers a number of environmental and economic benefits over conventional electricity, including lower greenhouse gas emissions, and it helps increase clean energy supply. There are a number of steps you can take to create a greener home

 , including installing solar panels

 and researching incentives for renewable energy in your state

 .

9. Calculate your household's carbon footprint

Use EPA's Household Greenhouse Gas Emissions Calculator to estimate your household greenhouse gas emissions resulting from energy use, transportation, and waste disposal. This tool helps you understand where your emissions come from and identify ways to reduce them.

10. Spread the word

Tell family and friends that energy efficiency is good for their homes and good for the environment because it lowers greenhouse gas emissions and air pollution. Tell five people and together we can help our homes help us all.

7 iPhone Apps to Manage Energy Consumption

by Katie Fehrenbacher

AUG. 4, 2009 - 9:00 PM PST

25 Comments

- A

- A

SUMMARY:
Energy management tools designed to help you curb unnecessary power used in your home have yet to break into the mainstream, and only 13 percent of people say they would want to manage home energy consumption via a mobile device, according to Clint Wheelock of Pike […]

tweet this

Energy management tools designed to help you curb unnecessary power used in your home have yet to break into the mainstream, and only 13 percent of people say they would want to manage home energy consumption via a mobile device, according to Clint Wheelock of Pike Research (via GigaOM Pro subscription required). But hey, who needs a market for this stuff, when energy management startups can build a slick iPhone app on the cheap and use the mobile version as marketing for their main products. There’s also been an influx of iPhone app developers that have created basic calculators that you can use to manually plug in electricity meter data to track and manage your home consumption (we only named a couple of them below). Here’s 7 iPhone apps being developed by firms that want you to cut back on your pad’s energy use and which are available now, or will be soon enough, through Apple’s iPhone app store.

Tendril Vantage Mobile: Tendril Vantage Mobile, which debuted at the Demo conference in March, comes from Tendril — a 5-year-old Boulder, Colorado-based company that recently raised $30 million. (Updated) The app will be available to both select utility customers and consumers in 2010, offering a way to see their home energy consumption in real time, view dynamic pricing changes, and control connected appliances and thermostats remotely. Tendril says it is also working on adding text-message updates, more graphs, and information about the carbon emissions associated with users’ energy use.

Visible Energy’s Energy UFO: Visible Energy, a year-old Palo Alto, Calif.-based startup that launched at our Green:Net conference earlier this year, has developed an iPhone application called Energy UFO that is already available on Apple’s app store for free. The UFO app provides a mobile interface for the plugs and circuits that are connected to Visible Energy’s energy management gadgets and power strips — but, since that gear isn’t available for sale yet, we’re thinking the iPhone app won’t be too interesting until the first products are supposed to be available by Christmas of this year.

Ecobee’s Smart Thermostat: As Tyler Hamilton reported on Clean Break this weekend, the Toronto-based startup Ecobee, which has developed a WiFi-based smart thermostat, is planning to launch an iPhone app that enables users to remotely turn up and down their thermostats. The thermostat interface is displayed horizontally on the iPhone screen and can be used for utility demand response services.

Meter Readings: Developed by Graham Haly and released at the end of July, Meter Readings is available now for $0.99, and provides up to four interfaces where you can enter meter data from electricity, water and gas meters. Like the following two apps, Meter Readings is intended for manual entry of meter data so it is a little time consuming and limited.

MeterRead: Another manual input app, MeterRead was created by Zerogate, and enables the user to input the data from electricity meters to monitor and manage home energy consumption. It’s available now for $0.99. The interface is interesting in that you can set the virtual dial on the app to match the image on the meter, instead of inputting numerical data (via TheAppleBlog).

Wattulator and Watts Plus: Like the two previous manual input applications, the Wattulator and Watts Plus — both developed by David Holzer and released late June — requires you to manually input power usage to crunch calculations, but these apps are focused on how much energy specific appliances are consuming. Available now for $0.99 for Wattulator and $1.99 for Watts Plus.

Control4′s My House UI: Digital home startup Control4, which recently raised $17.3 million, has recently launched an iPhone application for its customers called “My House UI.” The iPhone app enables the customer to control a variety of house system, including air conditioning and heating and lights. It’s free to download but of course you need Control4′s in-home devices.

MeterPlug enlists smartphones to help monitor energy use

By Antonio Pasolini

January 17, 2013

6 Comments
4 Pictures

http://images.gizmag.com/gallery_lrg/meterplug-2.jpg
http://images.gizmag.com/gallery_lrg/meterplug-4.jpg

 World’s Most Powerful & Portable Device Charger Soon Available

The electricity tracking capabilities that come with this power outlet plug could lower our spending significantly since it tracks it all in the currency you select. It also has the ability to track costs if your power is priced differently throughout the day. This is one of those insanely useful and innovative solutions to lower your electricity costs. Our electricity tracking capabilities are pretty much complete with this MeterPlug.

The MeterPlug inventors are currently looking for funding over at IndieGoGo. They are looking to raise $70,000 and they have already managed to raise north of $74,000. This means that if you pledge $45.00 you will be receiving a MeterPlug at the end of the funding period (which is now only 26 days away). Just remember that shipping is not included. I can’t wait to try this electricitytracking concept out. It’s like incorporating the future into your house by just adding a plug into your power outlet. This could be huge!

The MeterPlug Electricity Tracking Device & App
<iframe width="560" height="315" src="//www.youtube.com/embed/k3HBc6Q5thY" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

The following are some stand-alone electricity-management apps that anyone with the right mobile device can use:

Kill-O-Watts : This iPhone app lets you calculate energy use and predict bills. You input power consumption data for individual devices (this information is usually supplied with new appliances, computers, etc.) or pick typical devices from a database that comes with the app. Then specify how many hours a day each is used. Finally, you enter your utility’s rates. Kill-O-Watts can then tell you every device’s monthly usage and cost. The app can’t handle time-of-day pricing yet, says Mauricio Franco, its developer.Cost: 99 cents. Developer: Arca de la Alianza, Inc.

Meter Readings: This one is an iPhone and iPad app for recording readings from electricity, gas and water meters. Based on manually entered data, it displays graphs and tables of weekly and monthly costs and year-to-year comparisons, predicts your next bill and helps check bill accuracy. The app can handle multiple meters. Cost: $1.99. Developer: Graham Haley.

MeterRead: Another meter-reading tool, for iPhone or iPod Touch. Its twist is that rather than requiring you to interpret old-style meters with multiple dials, it displays dials that you set to match your meter. It shows you what you’ve used since your last reading and predicts your monthly bill based on usage to date. Cost: $2.99. Developer: Zerogate.

Watts Plus: Calculates approximately how much one appliance costs to run when you enter information about its power consumption, hours of use and your utility’s rates. The developer says you’ll get the most accurate results by using a measurement device to check the appliance’s actual usage. The app doesn’t deal with time-of-day pricing. The same developer offers a cheaper but less precise version called Wattulator. Cost: Watts Plus $1.99, Wattulator 99 cents. Developer: David Holzer.

While these apps stand alone, others come as part of a package with energy monitoring and control devices.

Ecobee Inc.: This Toronto-based outfit sells a Smart Thermostat – a programmable thermostat with added remote-control capabilities and ease-of-use features. Stuart Lombard, president and chief executive of Ecobee, says the ability to adjust the thermostat remotely lets people cut back on heating or air conditioning while nobody is home, then adjust the thermostat shortly before returning.

Ecobee has free apps for iPhone and Android, and Mr. Lombard says a BlackBerry version is due for release by year-end. The Smart Thermostat is available through heating and air conditioning contractors for around $500 installed.

UFO Power Center: This product’s key component is a “smart” power strip with outlets that can be turned on and off according to a pre-programmed schedule or by remote control. Marco Graziano, founder and chief executive of Visible Energy, Inc., the Palo Alto, Calif.-based developer, says it is often used for cutting power to equipment like televisions, stereos and computers that consume electricity even when turned off .

The mobile app that comes with UFO Power Center can change schedules and switch outlets on remotely. It can also show usage data from a utility’s smart meters, but so far that only works in California, Mr. Graziano says. Visible Energy sells the power strips for $99.99 each, and the mobile app is free.

Tendril Inc.: This company, based in Boulder, CO., offers an app for iPhone and Android as part of Tendril Connect, a platform that shows consumers energy-use information, lets them control devices remotely and provides tips on managing energy. Tendril Connect and its mobile apps are only available through utilities. Mike Bukhin, senior director and architect for Tendril’s consumer products group, says the company has signed up about 30 utilities, though so far, none are in Canada.

Intel® Power Gadget

Submitted by Jun De Vega (Intel) on Fri, 10/04/2013 - 09:05

Download

Intel® Power Gadget 2.7 (Windows 32-bit)

Intel® Power Gadget 2.7 (Windows 64-bit)

Intel® Power Gadget for Mac

Intel® Power Gadget for Linux

Mobile Media, Social Media

111 Low-Cost or Free Online Tools for Nonprofits

July 29, 2013

The number of low-cost or free online resources and tools available to nonprofits today is astounding. Many nonprofit professionals are overwhelmed by the all choices and as mobile media continues to grow, prepare to be mind-boggled by all the new technology options that will be available to your nonprofit in coming years.

That said, to be alerted of new low-cost or free resources and tools available for nonprofits, please subscribe to the Nonprofit Tech for Good 2.0 e-Newsletter [see right column]. A section of the e-newsletter entitled “Resource of the Week” features a new resource/tool in each edition.

1. Zeen :: zeen.com

Zeen is a new product soon-to-be launched by YouTube’s co-founders that will allow users to “discover and create beautiful magazines.” At this point that’s all we know, but the site is currently allowing users to secure their username on the Zeen homepage. With YouTube’s resources behind the project and tablets changing the way donors and supporters consume Web content, you’d be wise to spend two minutes reserving and protecting your nonprofit’s Zeen username.

2. Wufoo :: wufoo.com

Wufoo allows individuals and brands to easily create web forms through a simple drag and drop interface. Ideal for capturing contact information for your mailing list, event registrations, and even customizing PayPal into your website for donation processing, Wufoo is well-reviewed and reasonably priced.

3. Worldometers :: worldometers.info

A website that provides world statistics updated in real-time in categories ranging from world population to stats about energy and water consumption.

4. Worldle :: wordle.net

Wordle is an online tool that allows you to easily create word clouds. You can customize the color scheme, font, and layout with just a few clicks. Using Wordle, nonprofits could generate word clouds that add some color and creativity to their online fundraising and outreach campaigns.

5. Windows Live Writer :: explore.live.com/livewriter

Windows Live Writer is primarily known as tool to help you better format and publish blog posts to the Web, but it’s also a very useful, simple, and free tool that can be used to easily generate HTML code. Knowing basic HTML or using a tool like Live Writer to generate HtML can transform a nonprofit’s ROI (Return on Investment) from using social media.

6. Wibbitz :: wibbitz.com

Branding themselves as the “Play” button for the Web, Wibbitz automatically converts text-based posts and articles into engaging, interactive videos so your supporters “never have to read again.” The Wibbitz Play Button or Player can be easily added to entire websites, single articles, or just on a home page. To see a live example, view the Wibbitz Demo.

7. What The Trend :: whatthetrend.com

An online database of what is #trending on Twitter with user-generated definitions of related hashtags.

8. We the People :: petitions.whitehouse.gov

We the People is an online petitioning service launched by the Obama Administration that enables U.S. citizens to directly petition the U.S. Government. Although its terms of service specify that only individuals can create and sign petitions, U.S.-based nonprofits and nonprofit staff that regularly participate in e-advocacy should monitor what issues/petitions are most important to U.S. citizens. The site is consistently being reviewed by White House staff and petitions that receive more than 25,000 signatures are guaranteed a response from the Obama Administration. Learn more at: petitions.whitehouse.gov

9. VoiceTexter :: itunes.apple.com/voicetexter

Ideal for mobile social media managers, VoiceTexter is an iPhone app that instantly transcribes your voice messages. It can also translate your messages in multiple languages.

10. Vizify :: vizify.com

Vizify scans your Twitter account to find your most retweeted tweets, most influencial and engagaged followers, and the most common words associated with your Twitter account and then packages the data into a Twitter video that you can share with staff and followers.

11. VinePeek :: vinepeek.com

Vinepeek posts a continuous stream of newly-posted Vines in realtime. Most nonprofits have not yet embraced Twitter’s new Vine App, thus they may not have an understanding of how to record and broadcast the world (and social good) in six second bites. Vinepeek gives you a glimpse of Vine’s potential for visual storytelling.

12. Vine :: vine.co

Vine is Twitter’s mobile app that can be used to create and share 6-second videos on Twitter.

13. Viewbix :: viewbix.com

Viewbix is a service that allows you to insert numerous apps inside of the videos that you host on your nonprofit’s website, such as a “Donate” button, an e-newsletter subscribe option, or your Twitter feed.

14. Viddy :: viddy.com

A smartphone app that allows users to easily record, edit, and share videos in just a few taps. The design is slick, the functionality is cutting-edge, and the reviewers are raving. For mobile social networkers, Viddy is a must-download.

15. USTREAM :: ustream.tv

This tool allows nonprofits to easily create Web-based Internet “TV” stations. Even more amazing, their smartphone and tablet apps allow you to broadcast live from anywhere, anytime… for free. Live-streaming is ideal for reporting live from conferences, fundraisers, and protests. Definitely a trend to keep your eyes on as Internet TV begins to penetrate our living rooms in coming years.

16. Upworthy :: upworthy.com

Upworthy is a content filtering tool that features the most read, shared, and buzz-worthy content on the Web. Most often the content has nothing to do with the nonprofit sector or social good, but it does help social media managers get a good understanding of what goes viral on the Web.

17. Twubs :: twubs.com

Twubs is a Twitter chat management tool that aggregates tweets, pics, and video into branded hashtag pages. You can also schedule Twitter chats directly inside of Twubs and use the tool to tweet and monitor hashtags during live events. If your nonprofit uses a particular hashtag in your Twitter campaigns on a regular basis, then signing up and registering that hashtag (before anyone else does) is highly recommended.

18. TwtPoll :: twtpoll.com

TwtPoll enables nonprofits to create polls that can be shared on Twitter or any any other social network. You can also view statistics about what time people voted and from what country.

19. Twitter Mosaic :: sxoop.com/twitter

A website that allows you to create an image with a mosaic of your Twitter Followers’ avatars. Useful for web campaigns, Twitter Mosaic also provides the ability to create t-shirts that include your nonprofit’s Twitter name and your mosaic of Followers.

20. TwitSprout :: twitsprout.com

A fun, colorful way to track your nonprofit’s growth and activity on Twitter. Currently in beta, TwitSprout also allows you to easily convert your Twitter data into a PDF-format for easy sharing with others.

21. Twibbon :: twibbon.com

Twibbon is a tool that allows your supporters on Twitter and Facebook to add a micro version of your nonprofit’s avatar to their profile pics.

22. Tweriod :: tweriod.com

Tweriod gives you the best times to tweet. It analyses both your tweets and your followers’ tweets so you can start tweeting when it makes most sense to reach others.

23. TweepsMap :: tweepsmap.com

TweepsMap is a free tool that provides a visual, interactive map of your Twitter followers by country, state or city by simply logging in with your Twitter ID. For example, see the followers of @NonprofitOrgs by country at tweepsmap.com/!nonprofitorgs.

24. TurboVote :: turbovote.org

TurboVote enables U.S. citizens to register to vote, vote by mail, and receive election reminders via text message. If your nonprofit is one that regularly encourages citizens to register to vote and show up on election day, this could be a new tool to add to your list. 501(c)(3) organizations can register people and try to convince them to vote. However, they can’t tell people who to for, or even what party to vote for.

25. Tripline :: tripline.net

Tripline is a clever way to visually plot check-ins on a map that can be shared with others. If your nonprofit does awareness tours, hosts events in multiple cities, or is active around your hometown, Tripline can help staff share their location-based activism and advocacy online.

26. TweetCharts :: tweetcharts.com

TweetCharts pulls up a wide variety of data about any word, phrase, URL, hashtag or username that’s being used on Twitter. For example, here are the results for a search of the word “nonprofit.” Nonprofits should at the very least search their organization’s name and Twitter username to see what kind of response (if any) your nonprofit’s twittering is gaining on Twitter.

27. Timekiwi :: timekiwi.com

Timikiwi allows you to create a chronological display of your social media accounts with just a few clicks. Ideal for telling your nonprofit’s history on the Social Web, you can add Twitter, Tumblr, Posterous, WordPress, and Instagram. Facebook, YouTube, Flickr, and others are coming soon.

28. TechSoup.org :: techsoup.org

TechSoup is a nonprofit with a clear focus: providing other nonprofits and libraries with technology that empowers them to fulfill their missions and serve their communities. As part of that goal, TechSoup provides heavily discounted technology products and information geared specifically to the unique challenges faced by nonprofits and libraries. Founded in 1987, if you hadn’t heard of TechSoup until now, then you now know about one of the best resources for nonprofits on the Web today.

29. TapFunder :: tapfunder.com

TapFunder is a simple, yet innovative new approach to text-to-give fundraising. Rather than a donor texting a keyword to a shortcode to donate and having the donation processed through the donor’s mobile phone bill, with TapFunder the donor is sent a link to a mobile-optimized payment site where the donor can make the donation with a credit card. When mobile wallets go mainstreaam, this simple tweak in text-to-give fundraising will be a game changer. Donations could be made simply with two taps on your smartphone and processed without having to through the mobile carriers.

30. SupporterWall :: supporterwall.com

A website that allows nonprofits to set up web-based SupporterWalls of which spots of varying sizes and donation amounts can be purchased by your supporters.

31. Storify :: storify.com

Storify is a new tool that allows you easily search multiple social networks by subject or theme and then through drag and drop functionality, you can organize the results (tweets, status updates, videos, photos, etc.) into “Stories” that can then be easily shared on social media and embeded on websites and blogs. Currently in beta, the Storify homepage features numerous timely stories.

32. Statigram :: statigr.am

Statigram is a service for tracking your Instagram statistics. It provides engagement data about your photos, likes, follower growth, as well as when is the best and worst time to post.

33. Square :: squareup.com

Part-smartphone app, part-hardware device, Square enables the processing of credit card payments on your smartphone. Great for farmers’ market vendors, silent auctions, and fundraisers on the go!

34. Sparked.com :: sparked.com

Sparked.com is an online portal of volunteers that have signed up to offer small amounts of time to complete Web-based projects requested by nonprofits. Known as micro-volunteers, these individuals offer one or two hours a week to complete “Challenges” in the areas of technology, design, research, etc. Free for nonprofits, it’s an easy way to tap into a skilled volunteer network without committing a lot time to volunteer management.

35. Skype Premium :: skype.com/intl/en-us/prices/premium

Skype Premium is an easy-to-use, affordable tool that allows nonprofits to host group video calls and group meetings via screen sharing for a low annual fee of $53.94. If your nonprofit has staff located in multiple locations or a remote staff that works from home, this powerful, highly-functioning new version of Skype is a must.

36. SimpleBooklet :: simplebooklet.com

Simplebooklet easily enables content producers to create flipbooks that can be instantly integrated into the Social Web. Ideal for publishing interactive digital flyers, brochures or annual reports, Simplebooklet is hosted in the cloud thus any edits are automatically changed everywhere your booklet has been published.

37. Share As Image :: shareasimage.com

Share As Image allows you to select any text on the Web and pin it as a quote on Pinterest. This tool is a simple way to create graphics of inspirational quotes or powerful stats that can then also be shared on Facebook, Twitter, Flickr, and Google+.

38. Screenr :: screenr.com

Screenr is a free, web-based screen recorder that makes it easy for nonprofits to record and share screencasts. Nonprofits could use Screenr to train staff, mobilize donors and activists, or tell their stories in a new way online.

39. Re.vu :: re.vu

Re.vu converts your LinkedIn Profile content into a visually-compelling Re.vu Profile. If you are looking for a new job or want to build or enhance your personal brand online, Re.vu is new tool definitely worth exploring.

40. Retwact :: rtrt.co

Retwact is a tool that allows you to retract tweets by notifying those who have retweeted the tweets that your nonprofit requests that they be retracted a.k.a. retwacted. This tool could come in handy for those nonprofits that respond to crisis situations and accidently send out tweets based on incorrect news reports

41. Qwiki :: qwiki.com

Qwiki automatically turns pictures and videos from events you’ve captured on your iPhone into brief movies to share.

42. Quozio :: quozio.com

Quozio is a simple tool that enables to create images of quotes that can be uploaded to Pinterest, Facebook, Twitter or Google+.

43. Quoto :: quoto.com

Quoto is an online directory of more than 150,000 inspirational quotes. In addition to text quotes, Quoto also has a digital library of quotes embedded on images.

44. Present.me :: Present.me

Present.me. allows users to merge PowerPoint, slideshows, and video to create more visually compelling presentations. Nonprofits could use Present.me for awareness campaigns, staff and volunteer training, and creative storytelling and reporting. For example, see this recent Present.me report back from Wimbledon.

45. PowerPoint Maps Online :: powerpointmapsonline.com

PowerPoint Maps Online offers low-cost, interactive maps that can be used in PowerPoint presentations. They have an extensive collection of maps of all continents, countries and states.

46. PicMonkey :: picmonkey.com

PicMonkey is a photo editing tool that enables nonprofits to easily embed text upon photos, brand your images with your logo, and create photo collages through a simple drag-and-drop process. Using their collage layouts, your nonprofit can create multiple Facebook covers in just minutes. To upgrade to a Royal account is $33 a year.

47. Picmark :: picmark.co

PicMark is a free tool that easily enables you to watermark your images before uploading them to social networks. It’s good for branding your nonprofit and protecting the copyright of your photos. PicMarked photos would make a good Flickr slideshow as well.

48. Photoshop Touch :: adobe.com/photoshop-touch.html

Photoshop Touch is a tablet app and photo-editing tool available for both iPad and Android tablets. It takes the best functions and features of Photoshop and is amazingly priced at only $10.

49. Outlook.com :: outlook.com

Named one of TIME’s 50 Best Websites of 2012, Outlook.com is Microsoft’s new Web-based email service. With its design and tool set consistent with the soon-to-be-released Windows 8, nonprofits would be wise to sign up and reserve their first choice of Outlook e-mail addresses as soon as possible.

50. npCloud :: npcloud.org

npCloud provides cloud-based technology products and services to nonprofits. A service of Tech Impact, npCloud is a nonprofit whose mission is to ensure all nonprofits can use cloud-based technology to better serve their communities.

51. Noun Project :: thenounproject.com

The Noun Project’s mission is to share, celebrate and enhance the world’s visual language by serving as a portal to unique icon sets. To view icons relevant to nonprofits, see the sets created and submitted by the National Park Service and the United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs.

52. Nonprofit Technology Magazine :: nonprofittechnologymagazine.com

Nonprofit Technology Magazine is a free monthly multimedia iPad publication that provides some of the best technological information available from leading authorities in the nonprofit field.

53. Museum of Me :: intel.com/museumofme

A Facebook app that creatively displays you and your Facebook friends in a virtual museum. While at first it may feel a little narcissistic, it is a clever and moving exhibition of your Facebook life – and one of the few Facebook apps I have recommended that anyone add on Facebook.

54. MoFuse :: mofuse.com

MoFuse is a mobile content management system that allows you to easily create mobile websites using basic HTML and the RSS feed of your blog. Fees start at $8 per month.

55. Mobile Marketing Watch :: mobilemarketingwatch.com

Mobile Marketing Watch is a blog about all things mobile technology and mobile commerce. If your nonprofit hasn’t yet begun to prioritize the Mobile Web, then subscribing to this blog would be a good first step.

56. MobileCause :: mobilecause.com

MobileCause is a mobile service provider that exclusively serves the nonprofit sector. If your nonprofit is ready to begin experimenting with group texting or mobile fundraising, MobileCause has the most affordable pricing.

57. Meetup :: meetup.com

Ideal for organizing regional chapters, activists, or special events, Meetup makes it easy for nonprofits to organize supporters online to then meet up face-to-face offline. For a great example of a nonprofit using Meetup, see the the Nature Conservancy’s Picnic for the Planet.

58. Local Impact Map :: datamarket.azure.com/application

Microsoft Local Impact Map is a low-cost visual mapping tool ideal for nonprofits that have multiple chapters or programs. Whether you want to display your work on a local, national, or global map, this is a visually-compelling new way to tell your nonprofit’s story. For example, see the Local Impact Map for TechSoup.org.

59. LevelUp :: thelevelup.com

LevelUp is a mobile payment system that allows users to register their credit cards to make purchases at participating merchants with a simple scan of a QR code. Named one of the six start-ups to watch in 2012 by Mashable, it’s unclear at this point whether mobile wallets, QR codes, texting, or a tool yet to be released will dominate mobile fundraising in the near future, but all nonprofit fundraisers should be watching the rapdily-evolving mobile payment technology very closely.

60. LastPass :: lastpass.com

LastPass is a tool that consolidates all your online passwords into one easy-to-use, secure password manager. Ideal for social and mobile media managers that are juggling 20+ accounts, the premium version is only $12 a year.

61. JustCoz.org :: justcoz.org

JustCoz.org is a platform that enables charities, nonprofits, and NGOs to increase their social media reach by way of tweet and status update donations. In just a few clicks your supporters can donate a tweet or status update to benefit your cause. To begin, your first step is to login to JustCoz.org with your Twitter account to create a Cause page for your nonprofit.

62. iSupr8 :: itunes.apple.com/app/isupr8

iSupr 8 lets you give videos you’ve recorded on your iPhone a vintage look, grading each pixel of your video to give it a unique vintage look. The app allows you to adjust the frame rate of videos you’ve recorded to 12, 18, or 24 frames per second and has number of customizable film stocks you can use to make your video look its best.

63. iPad & iPhone Peek :: ipadpeek.com

iPad & iPhone Peek is a simple tool that allows you to see what your website looks like on an iPad and iPhone. While no replacement for the real thing, nonprofits can at least get a peek at how their desktop site looks on mobile devices.

64. Internet Archive Wayback Machine :: web.archive.org

This resources is always good for a laugh. Simply plug in your nonprofits’s website URL and you can seen cached versions of your site going back to 1996. Love it!

65. Instagram :: instagr.am

A free, fun mobile photo-sharing iPhone App that turns your mobile photos instantly in art. Users simply take a photo with their iPhone and add special editing and art effects with one tap. The app then allows you to share your photos on a photo-by-photo basis on Flickr, Facebook, and Twitter. Additionally, if your specify a location with your photos, you can opt to also share your photos on Foursquare.

66. Infogr.am :: infogr.am

Infogr.am is a free, do-it-yourself infographic creation tool. It combines everything a good social media manager knows to maximize on the Social Web in 2012 i.e., graphics, images, statistics, and inspirational quotes. That said, a low-cost premium version is coming soon.

67. IconsPedia :: iconspedia.com/pack/social-me-1467

A great source for free icons to use on your website, blog, Facebook Page, in your e-mail newsletter, etc. In fact, I used them for this blog (see upper-right), but please ignore the silly photo in the Fotolia ad. It’s a throwback from social networking circa 2006.

68. HopeMob :: hopemob.org

HopeMob is a crowdfunding platform built for individuals who are in financial need and in crisis. A nonprofit itself, the site is 100% fee-free and each story posted is independently researched and verified. While it’s not a fundraising tool built specifically for nonprofits, if your nonprofit works with individuals and communities who are in financial need and in crisis, HopeMob has a large community of supporters that can help.

69. GroupMe :: groupme.com

Part-website, part-smartphone app, this tool enables free group texting between small groups of people. You can either manage your group online or on your mobile phone. Groups currently are maxed at 25 members, but in time will likely grow and perhaps even enable one-to-many group texting for free or at a very low-cost. GroupMe is useful for managing small teams of volunteers or for real-time communications between staff and volunteers during events.

70. Group/as :: group.as

Group/as is a user-submitted grouping tool for Google+ Pages. If your nonprofit is on Google+, be sure to add your Page to the “Nonprofit” and “Charity” groups.

71. GreatNonprofits :: greatnonprofits.org

A user-generated charity review site that’s ideal for nonprofits that are too small to get officially reviewed by Charity Navigator or the BBB Wise Giving Alliance, your supporters can write reviews for your nonprofit that you can then link to on your “Donate Now” landing page. That said, you should also monitor this site (and others like it) for the rare rogue review.

72. Google Wallet :: google.com/wallet

Google Wallet is unique from other mobile wallets in that it allows nonprofits to accept online donations using the Web-based version of Google Wallet.

73. Google Mobile :: google.com/mobile

A mobile app that allows you easily conduct mobile searches by simply speaking into your phone using their new “Speak Now” technology. Additionally, the app serves as hub to all other Google Apps, such as Gmail, Calendar, Docs, Reader, Voice, Maps, etc. It is a must download!

74. Google Internet Stats :: google.co.uk/intl/internetstats

A collection of economic and media trends and stats. Very useful to social media practitioners and bloggers.

75. Google Chrome :: google.com/chrome

Google Chrome is a free web browser for Windows XP, Vista, and 7. It’s super fast, takes much less memory than Firefox, and makes social networking in particular much easier. Even if you are set in your browsing ways with IE or Firefox, Google Chrome only takes of few minutes of your time to download and experience.

76. Global Tweets :: globaltweets.com

GlobalTweets is a website which plots recent tweets from all over the world on a map by using their geographical information. Nonprofits can easily participate by configuring their Twitter accounts to share location and then using the #GT hashtag.

77. #GivingTuesday :: givingtuesday.org

#GivingTuesday is a campaign that encourages individuals and businesses to think differently about the holiday season. To begin on Tuesday, November 27, the campaign aims to inspire increased philanthropy, conscious consumerism, and volunteerism during the holidays.

78. Giving Library :: givinglibrary.org

Launched to enable donors and supporters to easily learn more about the nonprofits they support (or are considering supporting), the Giving Library is a portal to nonprofits that have created informational videos explaining their work, mission, accomplishments and future goals. If you are interested in having your nonprofit listed on the Giving Library, you can apply here.

79. GeoPollster :: geopollster.com

GeoPollster is a new connected app that enables you to view the political donations of businesses that you check in to on Foursquare. Powered by OpenSecrets.org, nonprofits that work on issues related to corporate accountability and democracy could use this app as part of their mobile strategy to build awareness about campaign finance reform.

80. #FundraisingFriday :: nptechforgood.com/fundraising_friday

Launched by Nonprofit Tech 2.0, #FundraisingFriday is a Twitter campaign meant to encourage individuals to donate $10 to their favorite nonprofit every Friday.

81. FrontlineSMS :: frontlinesms.com

A free, open-source software program that enables users to send group text messages from computers or mobile phones. It must be downloaded and is available only to nonprofit organizations. Used widely throughout the globe, FrontlineSMS has empowered a texting revolutionat the grassroots by nonprofits in developing nations and has become a beacon for social good in mobile technology.

82. FotoFlexer :: fotoflexer.com

FotoFlexer is a free Web-based photo-editing tool that allows you to cut, crop, resize, and embed text and logos onto your photos. If your nonprofit is active on Pinterest or wants to make better use of your digital library, knowledge of photo-editing is essential.

83. Foter :: foter.com

Foter is an online database of royalty free images. Of the 228 million images currently available for download, 190 million are generated from Creative Commons.

84. Formstack :: formstack.com

Formstack allows nonprofits to easily create online forms to capture contact information of new supporters, volunteers, and donors. You can even create custom forms to process donations on your website or blog or to manage event registrations.

85. Flipboard :: flipboard.com

A must-download for nonprofit Twitterers! This iPhone/iPad app that allows you to easily flip through your favorite news sources and magazines. What’s unique and useful about it is that it can be configured to integrate with your Twitter and Facebook accounts. It also has a “Charities and NGOs” section. A winner of numerous “Best App” awards, this app will likely become your favorite new social newsreading app.

86. Flipagram :: flipagr.am

Flipagram is an iPhone app that enables users to convert their Instagram photos into video slideshows that can then be shared on other social media and uploaded to YouTube. At a cost of only $.99, the app is a must-download for mobile social media managers.

87. Flavors :: flavors.me

Flavors is a tool that allows nonprofits to easily create simple, well-designed websites for as little as $20 per year. For small nonprofits with tiny budgets, Flavors is an excellent option. Otherwise, nonprofits who already have websites can use Flavors to create landing pages for social media and fundraising campaigns as needed. For example, see Plan Asia’s Flavors Page at flavors.me/planasia.

88. Facebook Page Barometer :: barometer.agorapulse.com

Facebook Page Barometer is a tool that enables you to compare your nonprofit’s Facebook Page Insights (Reach, Engagement, Click-through Rate) to other pages that have signed up for the service.

89. Facebook Cheat Sheet :: dreamgrow.com/facebook-cheat-sheet

Updated regularly, the Facebook Cheat Sheet is a collection of must-know sizes, dimensions, and figures for Facebook Fan Pages.

90. Easelly :: easel.ly

Easelly allows you to easily to create infographics for your nonprofit by using pre-designed templates and a simple drag-and-drop process for data integration.

91. DollarPerMonth.org :: dollarpermonth.org

Each month, DollarPerMonth.org selects three charities for its members (who have pledged to donate a minimum of $1 per month) to vote on. The winning charity receives 50% of the community donations, the 2nd charity receives 30%, and the 3rd charity receives 20%. With only 36 charities selected per year, most nonprofits will not be able to participate but its a clever and powerful idea that could be easily duplicated by employee giving programs and socially responsible businesses.

92. Dipity :: dipity.com

This website allows users to build visually appealing interactive timelines using video, audio, images, location, social media, and timestamps. Nonprofits can use Dipity to create timelines that highlight their organizational history, current events, and special campaigns.

93. Daily DoGooder :: thedailydogooder.com

Daily DoGooder is a free e-newsletter that delivers one, just one, excellent cause video to your inbox each day. If your nonprofit needs creative inspiration or wants to see what other nonprofits are doing to tell their story via video, this is a must subscribe e-newsletter.

94. CrowdVoice :: crowdvoice.org

Ideal for activist organizations, CrowdVoice allows organizers to create “Voices” of protest where users can monitor and contribute links, photos, and videos of protests worldwide. It’s a creative, visual way to tell your organization’s stories of protest to your online communities.

95. Creative Commons on Flickr :: flickr.com/creativecommons

A great source for images for your nonprofit’s website, blog, e-newsletter, and social networking profiles.

96. Clipix :: clipix.com

Clipix makes bookmarking a.k.a. clipping articles and links extremely easy. Nonprofit staff often need to manage and organize large quantities of web links for later viewing, and bookmarking via browsers is becoming cumbersome. With a Pinterest-like design, Clipix is the new generation of online content management.

97. Clker :: clker.com

Clker is an online database of royalty free clip art. It also has a new service which can vectorize your images in one click.

98. Cinchcast :: cinchcast.com

This tool turns your smartphone or desktop computer into an audio recorder that allows you to easily share audio messages and podasts with your supporters. You can either broadcast live (think of it as your own radio station) or host the messages on the Cinchcast server for later listening. Cinchcast is ideal for nonprofits that are advancing their communications into real-time reporting while on location from fundraisers, conferences, protests, etc.

99. Chirp :: chirp.io

Chirp is an iPhone app that uses soundwaves to transfer photos, web pages, or contact information to anyone within “chirping” distance who also has the app. A technology in its infancy, in the future soundwaves could be used by nonprofits to encourage groups of people to take action or make a donation.

100. Check Facebook :: checkfacebook.com

This site provides an incredibly useful breakdown of Facebook users by age, gender, and location. It also pulls in a feed of most recent Facebook news and illuminates in real-time the fastest growing countries using Facebook.

101. Change.org :: change.org

Change.org is the world’s largest petition platform. If your nonprofit engages in advocacy, it’s worth experimenting with. It’s also worth noting that they have an excellent mobile website which enables nonprofits to make their online advocacy campaigns mobile.

102. Bravo :: getbravo.com

Bravo enables brands to capture user-generated videos directly from the Web. Nonprofits could use Bravo to capture testimonials from donors and supporters or position statements from advocates and activists – and they do offer discounts for nonprofits.

103. BrainyQuote :: brainyquote.com

A directory of quotes by famous people, this websites list thousands of inspirational quotes useful for Tweeting and Facebook Status Updates. A good quote is certain to garner your nonprofit Retweets and thumbs up on Facebook any day of the week.

104. Audioboo :: audioboo.fm

Audioboo is a social network of audio recordings. Your nonprofit can record audio files using your deskptop/laptop computer or Audioboo’s mobile app and then upload them to your own Audioboo Channel.

105. Aradium :: facebook.com/aradium

Aradium is a new service that enables nonprofits and small businesses to create and host online stores inside of their Facebook Pages. Responsively designed for both desktop and mobile devices, customers can buy, share, like, comment and checkout all from your nonprofit’s Facebook Page.

106. Annual Calendar of Social Good & Cause Campaigns :: nptechforgood.com/annual-calendar

A must-bookmark list of special days that acknowledge social good events and cause campaigns. Ideal for launching online fundraising and awareness campaigns, your nonprofit needs at least a month to prepare your campaign materials and craft your messaging in order to build a sense of anticipation among your fans and followers.

107. Animoto :: animoto.com

Animoto enables users to turn their  photos, video clips, and music into videos that can be uploaded to YouTube and shared on the Social Web. They also offer their premium services for free through their Animoto for a Cause program.

108. Alexa Top Sites :: alexa.com/topsites

This website tracks what sites are the most popular in the world today. In addition to the list of global top sites, you can also view top sites by country.

109. Addictomatic :: addictomatic.com

A social search tool that allows you to easily track mentions of your nonprofit on social networking sites, blogs, and websites. Simply enter your nonprofit’s name and Addictomatic then creates a page of all your search results for easy future reference.

110. 360 Panorama :: occipital.com/360/app

Ideal for mobile social networkers, this $.99 app allows you to easily create panoramic photos on your smartphone. Simply tap the screen and pan your device in any direction. You’ll see your panorama being built in realtime as every incoming frame is processed. This is a must-buy app if your nonprofit regularly tells your story through mobile photo-sharing.

111. 2dCode :: 2d-code.co.uk

A comprehensive blog about all things related to Quick Response (QR) Codes, Augmented Reality (AR), and Near Field Communication (NFC). Based in the U.K., 2d Code is a must read for the early adopters.

http://www.amazon.com/Seeing-Power-Activism-Cultural-Production/dp/1612190448
http://ecx.images-amazon.com/images/I/516zds1Jx-L._SY344_BO1,204,203,200_.jpg

https://github.com/openlayers/ol3
http://www.thunderforest.com/landscape/
http://qgis.org/en/site/
http://pyqgis.org/repo/contributed
http://ol3js.org/
http://merkaartor.be/wiki/merkaartor/Download
GDAL http://www.gdal.org
Numpy http://www.numpy.org/
http://nest.array.ca/web/nest

http://earthexplorer.usgs.gov/
https://lpdaac.usgs.gov/
http://opentopo.sdsc.edu/gridsphere/gridsphere?cid=contributeframeportlet&gs_action=listTools

https://github.com/pydata/pandas
https://github.com/kjordahl/geopandas

http://sourceforge.net/projects/esmf/?source=recommended
http://opengrads.org/
http://uvcdat.llnl.gov/
http://cran.r-project.org/web/views/WebTechnologies.html
https://github.com/weecology
https://github.com/ropensci

http://www.gpsvisualizer.com/map_input
http://www.gpsvisualizer.com/profile_input
http://www.gpsvisualizer.com/kml_overlay
http://www.gpsvisualizer.com/map_input?form=googleearth

http://www.everytrail.com/

https://github.com/datawrapper

http://www.oecdbetterlifeindex.org/topics/environment/

OECD work on climate
Financing climate change action
Climate Change Expert Group (CCXG)
Tracking private climate finance
Water and climate change
Adaptation to climate change
Carbon Markets
Climate change and development
Rio Marker Climate Finance Statistics

http://webnet.oecd.org/climatechange/#story=0
https://github.com/kartograph/

http://prcweb.co.uk/lab/energy/

http://www.currentcost.com/product-cc128.html

http://prcweb.co.uk/lab/ukwind/

http://oceanpython.org/

Packages and libraries

Ocean modelling

- PyDOM    | Implements various diagnostics for NEMO ocean model output.
- OCTANT | Ocean C-grid model setup and analysis toolkit. Tools for ROMS and GETM. Replaces PyROMS.
- OOFE | Python engine to control the daily execution of ocean model ROMS in operational mode
- soda2roms | Creates climatology, initial, and boundary files for ROMS

Seawater properties

- Seawater Library for Python and it’s  Documentation
- Seawater package

Other Ocean tools

- Python-Oceans  |  Various scripts and functions from rsignell and ocefpaf

Scientific visualization and data analysis

- PyNGL & PyNIO  | NOAA package for visualization and data analysis

Other websites with lists of links

- Rob Hetland’s links    | List of links
- SEAPY    | List of links
- Bjørn Ådlandsvik links    | List of links

Other websites of interest

- PyAOS  |  Python for Atmospheric and Oceanic Sciences (Johnny Lin)

http://polar.ncep.noaa.gov/global/examples/usingpython.shtml

http://oceanpython.org/2012/11/26/plot-temperature-from-satlantics-lobo-server/

http://oceantrackingnetwork.org/

http://oceanpython.org/2013/03/04/whale-distribution-obis-seamap/

https://code.google.com/p/spyderlib/

https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib

http://nbviewer.ipython.org/github/robertodealmeida/notebooks/blob/master/earth_day_data_challenge/Analyzing%20whale%20tracks.ipynb

http://www.pyngl.ucar.edu/

http://renpy.org/

http://lima.usgs.gov/

http://www.naturalearthdata.com/downloads/

http://scitools.org.uk/cartopy/docs/latest/index.html

https://github.com/ocefpaf

http://toxnet.nlm.nih.gov/cgi-bin/sis/htmlgen?HSDB

http://toxmap.nlm.nih.gov/toxmap/main/index.jsp
http://toxtown.nlm.nih.gov/

http://nas-sites.org/climatemodeling/index.php

http://hazmap.nlm.nih.gov/index.php

http://www.vtk.org/

http://www.flickr.com/photos/tags/cityscape/map?
http://www.flickr.com/photos/tags/toxic%20dump/map?
http://www.flickr.com/photos/tags/earthquakes/map?

https://www.google.com/maps/views/streetview/grand-canyon?gl=us
https://www.google.com/maps/views/streetview/amazon?gl=us
https://www.google.com/maps/views/streetview/antarctica?gl=us
https://www.google.com/maps/views/streetview/oceans?gl=us

http://www-958.ibm.com/software/data/cognos/manyeyes/visualizations

Resources

Learn

- The OpenCV API for Computer Vision is well documented at OpenCV.org and in numerous books, such as Learning OpenCV (Adrian Kaehler and Gary Bradski, O'Reilly Media, 2013) and Mastering OpenCV with Practical Computer Vision Projects (Shervin Emami et al., O'Reilly Media, 2012). Note that OpenCV was implemented in C but has been updated with a C++ implementation that is encouraged for future applications. You can learn computer and machine vision theory from a variety of excellent academic texts, including Computer Vision: Algorithms and Applications (Richard Szeliski), Computer Vision: Models, Learning, and Inference (Simon J.D. Prince), and Computer and Machine Vision (E. Davies).
- The RenderMan language for scene descriptions and shading is well documented in many excellent texts, including The RenderMan Companion (Steve Upstill), The RenderMan Shading Language Guide, and Advanced RenderMan (Anthony Apodaca and Larry Gritz, Elsevier, 1999).
- Digital audio and video encoding are best implemented by referring to the standards (13818-1, 13818-2 for MPGE2 and ISO/IEC 14496-10 for MPEG4 and H.264/265), but many excellent summary texts are available, including Digital Media Primer, a great starter book that also covers Adobe Flash animation techniques, Video Engineering (Arch Luther and Andrew Inglis, McGraw-Hill, 1999), A Practical Guide to Video and Audio Compression (Cliff Wootten), and Streaming Media Demystified— in fact, all Demystified books from McGraw Hill.
- Many new wearable cameras are rapidly becoming ubiquitous, including GoPro, and adding AR-type features, such as Google Glass. Some cameras are designed for animals, such as National Geographic's Crittercam, now commoditized for dogs and cats with products like Eyenimal.

http://animals.nationalgeographic.com/animals/crittercam/
http://www.kittycams.uga.edu/photovideo.html
http://www.eyenimal.com/en/

http://gopro.com/

http://gstreamer.freedesktop.org/download/

http://www.simplecv.org/docs/

http://www.simplecv.org/docs/

http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/environment-courses/#SystemsPerspectivesandAnalysis

mbostock’s blocks

Multi-Line VoronoiDecember 18, 2013Processing Fixed-Width DataDecember 18, 2013Closest Point on Path IIDecember 18, 2013Closest Point on PathDecember 18, 2013Rotating Transverse MercatorDecember 17, 2013Cluster Force Layout IVDecember 9, 2013Clustered Force Layout IIIDecember 9, 2013Dynamic HexbinDecember 6, 2013Cluster Dendrogram IIDecember 5, 2013Rotating IcosahedronDecember 3, 2013Dynamic Simplification IVDecember 2, 2013Natural Log ScaleNovember 23, 2013Voronoi Arc MapNovember 22, 2013Hierarchical Edge BundlingNovember 22, 2013Zoomable Circle PackingNovember 22, 2013Infinite QueueNovember 22, 2013Parallel CoordinatesNovember 21, 2013Wrapping Long LabelsNovember 19, 2013Bar Chart IIINovember 13, 2013Bar Chart IIINovember 12, 2013Bar Chart IIINovember 12, 2013Range TransitionNovember 8, 2013Bar Chart IINovember 6, 2013Bar Chart IINovember 6, 2013Bar Chart IINovember 6, 2013Bar Chart IINovember 5, 2013Bar Chart INovember 5, 2013ShiboronoiNovember 2, 2013Virginia CountiesOctober 19, 2013Non-Computed Style TweenOctober 9, 2013Voronoi LabelsOctober 9, 2013Snowflake SimplificationOctober 9, 2013Delaunay Force MeshOctober 3, 2013See-Through Globe IISeptember 28, 2013See-Through GlobeSeptember 28, 2013Floating LandmassesSeptember 28, 2013Superscript Format IISeptember 28, 2013Superscript FormatSeptember 27, 2013OceanSeptember 26, 2013Canvas VoronoiSeptember 23, 2013Treemap PaddingSeptember 20, 2013Rotating OrthographicSeptember 19, 2013Subsecond TicksSeptember 18, 2013Smooth SliderSeptember 9, 2013Click-to-Recenter Brush IISeptember 9, 2013Click-to-Recenter BrushSeptember 9, 2013Save SVG as PNGSeptember 6, 2013Brush as SliderSeptember 5, 2013Arc DeduplicationSeptember 2, 2013Ring CuttingSeptember 2, 2013Simple JunctionsSeptember 2, 2013Junction FindingSeptember 1, 2013Ring ExtractionSeptember 1, 2013U.S. State MeshSeptember 1, 2013Population ChoroplethAugust 23, 2013Map Zooming IIIAugust 21, 2013Map Zooming IIAugust 21, 2013Dynamic Simplification IIIAugust 20, 2013Plant Hardiness ZonesAugust 18, 2013OPHZ ZoomingAugust 18, 2013Dynamic Simplification IIAugust 16, 2013Dynamic SimplificationAugust 15, 2013Map ZoomingAugust 15, 2013Zoom TransitionsAugust 14, 2013Brush Snapping IIAugust 14, 2013Brush SnappingAugust 14, 2013Zoom CenterAugust 13, 2013Mitchell’s Best-CandidateAugust 13, 2013Mitchell’s Best-CandidateAugust 13, 2013Mitchell’s Best-CandidateAugust 13, 2013Custom Cartesian ProjectionAugust 12, 2013Brush TransitionsAugust 12, 2013Left-Aligned TicksAugust 8, 2013Capturing ListenersAugust 2, 2013Drag + ZoomJuly 31, 2013U.S. Urban AreasJuly 30, 2013Concurrent Transitions IIJuly 25, 2013Gradient BumpJuly 22, 2013New York Block GroupsJuly 14, 2013DRY Bar ChartJuly 11, 2013Alaska AlbersJuly 8, 2013Bilevel PartitionJuly 7, 2013Great ArcJuly 4, 2013Projected ChoroplethJuly 4, 2013Raster & Vector ZoomJuly 2, 2013Extradition TreatiesJuly 2, 2013Dispatching EventsJune 26, 2013Snowden’s RouteJune 24, 2013Counting WeekdaysJune 20, 2013Vector TilesJune 17, 2013Exit, Update, Enter IIJune 14, 2013Exit, Update, EnterJune 14, 2013Custom EasingJune 9, 2013Kentucky Population DensityJune 9, 2013No Antimeridian CuttingJune 8, 2013Albers with ResamplingJune 8, 2013Albers without ResamplingJune 8, 2013Resampling ComparisonJune 8, 2013Resampling ComparisonJune 8, 2013Line SimplificationJune 7, 2013Scale-Dependent SamplingJune 7, 2013Rotating TransverseJune 7, 2013Transversing EquirectangularJune 7, 2013Orthographic to EquirectangularJune 7, 2013Rotating OrthographicJune 7, 2013TopoJSON LayersJune 4, 2013TopoJSON ParallaxJune 4, 2013Adaptive ResamplingJune 3, 2013CassiniJune 2, 2013Pie Chart Update, VMay 30, 2013Pie Chart Update, IVMay 30, 2013Pie Chart Update, IIIMay 30, 2013Hierarchical Edge BundlingMay 29, 2013Custom ProjectionMay 28, 2013Stroke Dash InterpolationMay 25, 2013AlbersUSA + PRMay 22, 2013Tissot’s IndicatrixMay 22, 2013Ordinal Tick FilteringMay 22, 2013Chamberlin TrimetricMay 21, 2013Airy’s Minimum ErrorMay 21, 2013Airy’s Minimum ErrorMay 21, 2013US, CA, MX and PRMay 20, 2013Vector TilesMay 20, 2013Albers TilesMay 19, 2013U.S. RiversMay 18, 2013Vector TilesMay 16, 2013Every ColorBrewer ScaleMay 14, 2013California Population DensityMay 12, 2013Projected TopoJSONMay 10, 2013Albers USAMay 9, 2013Marey’s Trains IIMay 8, 2013Marey’s TrainsMay 8, 2013Log AxisMay 7, 2013Log Axis with ZeroMay 7, 2013Gist API LatencyMay 2, 2013csv2tsvApril 24, 2013SkyboxApril 23, 2013Milky WayApril 23, 2013Hello WebGL IVApril 23, 2013Hello WebGL IIIApril 23, 2013Hello WebGL IIApril 23, 2013Hello WebGLApril 22, 2013Hashing PointsApril 19, 2013One System, Every Kepler PlanetApril 18, 2013Merging States IIApril 18, 2013Merging StatesApril 18, 2013Kepler’s TallyApril 18, 2013Albers SiberiaApril 18, 2013Lorenz ToyApril 16, 2013Lorenz SystemApril 14, 2013How selectAll WorksApril 11, 2013Ohio State Plane (N)April 9, 2013Concurrent TransitionsApril 9, 2013Raster & Vector ZoomApril 8, 2013GeoJOINApril 5, 2013Ginzburg IXApril 1, 2013Ginzburg VIIIApril 1, 2013Ginzburg VIApril 1, 2013Ginzburg VApril 1, 2013Ginzburg IVApril 1, 2013Hexagon MeshMarch 26, 2013MouseenterMarch 26, 2013Gall StereographicMarch 24, 2013Van der Grinten IIIMarch 24, 2013Van der Grinten IIMarch 24, 2013TimesMarch 24, 2013Rectangular PolyconicMarch 23, 2013ZipdecodeMarch 17, 2013Kentucky Population DensityMarch 12, 2013New Jersey State PlaneMarch 9, 2013Arc TweenMarch 6, 2013EPSG:2163 CoordinatesFebruary 27, 2013Gray EarthFebruary 26, 2013Constrained ZoomFebruary 19, 2013New Jersey BlocksFebruary 16, 2013One-Way MarkersFebruary 16, 2013Zip CodesFebruary 15, 2013StreamsFebruary 10, 2013Metropolitan Unemployment February 8, 2013FaheyFebruary 7, 2013The Sun’s View of the EarthFebruary 4, 2013Project to Bounding BoxFebruary 4, 2013Zoom to Bounding BoxFebruary 2, 2013Transverse MercatorFebruary 1, 2013Iceland TopographyJanuary 31, 2013Stacked-to-MultiplesJanuary 30, 2013113th U.S. Congressional DistrictsJanuary 28, 2013Rotating VoronoiJanuary 25, 2013Asia Lambert Conic ConformalJanuary 23, 2013Curved LinksJanuary 22, 2013Solar TerminatorJanuary 22, 2013Polar PlotJanuary 21, 2013Threshold KeyJanuary 19, 2013Draggable Network, IIJanuary 18, 2013Brushable Network, IIJanuary 18, 2013Brushable NetworkJanuary 17, 2013Draggable NetworkJanuary 17, 2013Two Point EquidistantJanuary 13, 2013Two Point EquidistantJanuary 13, 2013AtlantisJanuary 12, 2013BriesemeisterJanuary 12, 2013Concentric Circles EmanatingJanuary 10, 2013Mollweide HemispheresJanuary 9, 2013Interrupted MollweideJanuary 9, 2013Eckert–GreifendorffJanuary 9, 2013Van der Grinten IVJanuary 8, 2013Laskowski Tri-OptimalJanuary 8, 2013BromleyJanuary 8, 2013Wagner IVJanuary 8, 2013Interrupted Sinu-MollweideJanuary 8, 2013Interrupted Boggs EumorphicJanuary 7, 2013Boggs EumorphicJanuary 7, 2013Maurer No. 73January 7, 2013Hill EucyclicJanuary 7, 2013Natural EarthJanuary 7, 2013Tobler World-in-a-SquareJanuary 7, 2013Hobo–DyerJanuary 7, 2013Baker DinomicJanuary 7, 2013Flat-Polar SinusoidalJanuary 5, 2013Flat-Polar QuarticJanuary 5, 2013Flat-Polar ParabolicJanuary 5, 2013Craster ParabolicJanuary 5, 2013Wagner VIIJanuary 5, 2013HEALPixJanuary 5, 2013Quartic AuthalicJanuary 5, 2013WiechelJanuary 5, 2013ArmadilloJanuary 5, 2013Berghaus StarJanuary 5, 2013Craig RetroazimuthalJanuary 4, 2013Craig RetroazimuthalJanuary 4, 2013Hammer RetroazimuthalJanuary 4, 2013LittrowJanuary 4, 2013Interrupted SinusoidalJanuary 4, 2013Gnomonic ButterflyJanuary 4, 2013Waterman ButterflyJanuary 4, 2013Prose-only BlocksJanuary 4, 2013Interrupted Goode HomolosineJanuary 3, 2013Azimuthal EquidistantJanuary 2, 2013Blocky CountiesJanuary 1, 2013TopoJSON PointsDecember 29, 2012Rotated Axis LabelsDecember 28, 2012Polar Azimuthal Equal-areaDecember 23, 2012Gringorten Equal-AreaDecember 22, 2012U.S. Airports VoronoiDecember 22, 2012Brush HandlesDecember 20, 2012Ordinal BrushingDecember 20, 2012ggplot2-Style AxisDecember 20, 2012Q-Q PlotsDecember 20, 2012Zoomable SunburstDecember 20, 2012IcicleDecember 20, 2012QuadtreeDecember 20, 2012Graph RollupDecember 20, 2012Spline EditorDecember 19, 2012Symbol MapDecember 19, 2012Kernel Density EstimationDecember 19, 2012Convex HullDecember 19, 2012The Amazing PieDecember 19, 2012Donut TransitionsDecember 19, 2012Delaunay TriangulationDecember 19, 2012Hierarchical Edge BundlingDecember 19, 2012Cluster DendrogramDecember 19, 2012Reingold–Tilford TreeDecember 19, 2012Collapsible TreeDecember 19, 2012Finite State StreamDecember 18, 2012Bivariate Hexbin MapDecember 18, 2012Raster ReprojectionDecember 18, 2012Custom AxisDecember 17, 2012Sinu-MollweideDecember 17, 2012Peirce QuincuncialDecember 16, 2012Three-Axis RotationDecember 13, 2012Closest Point to SegmentDecember 13, 2012GeoJSON TransformsDecember 11, 2012StreamsDecember 10, 2012Hexagonal Binning (Area)December 9, 2012Hexagonal BinningDecember 9, 2012Contour PlotDecember 8, 2012Voronoi ClippingDecember 7, 2012Circle-Polygon IntersectionDecember 5, 2012Swiss CantonsDecember 4, 2012County CirclesDecember 4, 2012Blocky CountiesDecember 4, 2012Fuzzy CountiesDecember 4, 2012Area ChoroplethDecember 4, 2012Capturing MousemoveDecember 3, 2012World TourDecember 1, 2012World MapDecember 1, 2012Rainbow WormNovember 28, 2012Gradient Along StrokeNovember 28, 2012Clipped Map TilesNovember 26, 2012Custom Time FormatNovember 26, 2012U.S. TopoJSONNovember 23, 2012U.S. Land TopoJSONNovember 22, 2012Stitching States from CountiesNovember 22, 2012Zoomable Map TilesNovember 22, 2012U.S. Counties TopoJSONNovember 20, 2012U.S. TopoJSONNovember 18, 2012U.S. Counties TopoJSON MeshNovember 16, 2012U.S. States TopoJSONNovember 16, 2012TopoJSON ExamplesNovember 16, 2012Scatterplot Matrix BrushingNovember 12, 2012TreemapNovember 12, 2012Cluster DendrogramNovember 12, 2012Radial Reingold–Tilford TreeNovember 12, 2012Circle PackingNovember 12, 2012Sunburst PartitionNovember 12, 2012Calendar ViewNovember 12, 2012Bubble ChartNovember 12, 2012Lines with Rounded TurnsNovember 12, 2012Color via ClippingNovember 12, 2012Population PyramidNovember 12, 2012Force-Directed GraphNovember 12, 2012Chord DiagramNovember 12, 2012Bullet ChartsNovember 12, 2012Box PlotsNovember 12, 2012StreamgraphNovember 12, 2012ChoroplethNovember 12, 2012Voronoi TessellationNovember 12, 2012Non-Contiguous CartogramNovember 11, 2012Pseudo-Dorling CartogramNovember 11, 2012Pseudo-Demers CartogramNovember 11, 2012Zoomable AreaNovember 4, 2012Threshold EncodingOctober 28, 2012Gradient EncodingOctober 28, 2012Voronoi Test (N=2)October 26, 2012Sankey InterpolationOctober 26, 2012Creating Thumbnails with GraphicsMagickOctober 25, 2012Gall–PetersOctober 24, 2012Stacked-to-Grouped BarsOctober 24, 2012Underscore’s Equivalents in D3October 22, 2012Path TweenOctober 19, 2012Chained TransitionsOctober 17, 2012X-Value MouseoverOctober 16, 2012Update-Only TransitionOctober 16, 2012Difference ChartOctober 15, 2012Programmatic Pan+ZoomOctober 15, 2012Pan+ZoomOctober 15, 2012Donut MultiplesOctober 14, 2012Pie ChartOctober 13, 2012Donut ChartOctober 13, 2012ScatterplotOctober 13, 2012Grouped Bar ChartOctober 13, 2012Normalized Stacked Bar ChartOctober 13, 2012Stacked Bar ChartOctober 13, 2012Sortable Bar ChartOctober 13, 2012Bar ChartOctober 13, 2012Stacked Area ChartOctober 13, 2012Multi-Series Line ChartOctober 13, 2012Bivariate Area ChartOctober 13, 2012Line ChartOctober 13, 2012Area ChartOctober 13, 2012The Gist to Clone All GistsOctober 12, 2012LoximuthalOctober 10, 2012Walmart locationsOctober 8, 2012WebPlatform.org SVG LogoOctober 8, 2012Voronoi testsOctober 6, 2012van Wijk Smooth ZoomingOctober 3, 2012General Update Pattern, IIISeptember 30, 2012General Update Pattern, IISeptember 30, 2012General Update Pattern, ISeptember 30, 2012Projection ContextsSeptember 29, 2012LagrangeSeptember 27, 2012EisenlohrSeptember 27, 2012August ProjectionSeptember 27, 2012Van der Grinten ISeptember 27, 2012Adaptive ResamplingSeptember 27, 2012Interactive GnomonicSeptember 27, 2012Interactive OrthographicSeptember 27, 2012Satellite Projection TestSeptember 26, 2012Satellite ProjectionSeptember 26, 2012Rotating Winkel TripelSeptember 26, 2012Antimeridian CuttingSeptember 26, 2012d3.geo.path + CanvasSeptember 25, 2012GuyouSeptember 21, 2012Interactive StereographicSeptember 21, 2012GnomonicSeptember 20, 2012StereographicSeptember 20, 2012Spherical MercatorSeptember 20, 2012OrthographicSeptember 20, 2012Equirectangular (Plate Carrée)September 20, 2012Azimuthal EquidistantSeptember 20, 2012Lambert Azimuthal Equal-AreaSeptember 20, 2012Progress EventsSeptember 19, 2012Shared DataSeptember 19, 2012Sticky Force LayoutSeptember 19, 2012PolyconicSeptember 16, 2012Nell–HammerSeptember 16, 2012MollweideSeptember 16, 2012MillerSeptember 16, 2012Goode HomolosineSeptember 16, 2012Eckert VISeptember 16, 2012Eckert VSeptember 16, 2012Eckert IVSeptember 16, 2012Eckert IIISeptember 16, 2012Eckert IISeptember 16, 2012Eckert ISeptember 16, 2012Lambert Conformal Conic ProjectionSeptember 16, 2012Equidistant Conic ProjectionSeptember 16, 2012CollignonSeptember 16, 2012BonneSeptember 16, 2012Albers Equal-Area ConicSeptember 16, 2012Rotating EquirectangularSeptember 16, 2012Rotating OrthographicSeptember 16, 2012Sortable Table with BarsSeptember 14, 2012LarrivéeSeptember 13, 2012Cylindrical Equal-AreaSeptember 13, 2012SinusoidalSeptember 13, 2012HammerSeptember 13, 2012Projection TransitionsSeptember 12, 2012RobinsonSeptember 12, 2012Wagner VISeptember 12, 2012Kavrayskiy VIISeptember 12, 2012Map Projection DistortionsSeptember 12, 2012Clean Up for Natural Earth GeoJSONSeptember 9, 2012AitoffSeptember 9, 2012Winkel TripelSeptember 9, 2012Canvas Semantic ZoomingSeptember 8, 2012SVG Geometric ZoomingSeptember 8, 2012Canvas Geometric ZoomingSeptember 8, 2012SVG Semantic ZoomingSeptember 8, 2012Winkel Tripel GraticuleSeptember 7, 2012Aitoff GraticuleSeptember 7, 2012Lazy Scale DomainAugust 29, 2012Rounded RectangleAugust 25, 2012Circular SegmentAugust 22, 2012Axis StylingAugust 16, 2012Git-backed Node Blob ServerAugust 16, 2012Resizable Force LayoutAugust 15, 2012CSV Syntax DefinitionAugust 13, 2012Pack TestAugust 10, 2012Pack TestAugust 10, 2012Force-Directed GraphAugust 10, 2012Letter FrequencyAugust 9, 2012Line InterpolationAugust 9, 2012Monotone InterpolationAugust 9, 2012Monotone Interpolation BugAugust 9, 2012Threshold ChoroplethAugust 9, 2012d3.time.format localizationAugust 9, 2012d3.time.scale niceAugust 9, 2012d3.tsvAugust 9, 2012Custom TweensAugust 9, 2012Multi-Value MapsAugust 9, 2012Rainbows are HarmfulAugust 7, 2012HeightmapAugust 7, 2012Google HurdlesAugust 7, 2012Ordinal AxisAugust 4, 2012Scatterplot with ShapesAugust 2, 2012Collision Detection (Canvas)August 1, 2012Collision DetectionAugust 1, 2012Scatterplot MatrixJuly 30, 2012Ordinal Tick FilteringJuly 30, 2012Heatmap (2D Histogram, CSV)July 29, 2012Chrome Circle Precision BugJuly 29, 2012Chrome Circle Precision BugJuly 28, 2012Tree Layout OrientationsJuly 26, 2012Scatterplot with Multiple SeriesJuly 26, 2012Force Layout with CanvasJuly 26, 2012Transform InterpolationJuly 24, 2012Animated Clipped textPathJuly 20, 2012Animated textPathJuly 20, 2012Mirrored EasingJuly 19, 2012Circle-Circle IntersectionJuly 11, 2012Twitter SVG LogoJuly 11, 2012Read File or HTTPJuly 11, 2012Cross-linked MouseoverJuly 11, 2012Shape TweeningJuly 10, 2012Heatmap (Canvas, JSON)July 9, 2012IcosahedronJuly 6, 2012Geodesic GridJuly 6, 2012Geodesic RainbowJuly 5, 2012IcosahedronJuly 5, 2012Stacked Radial AreaJuly 4, 2012HistogramJuly 4, 2012D3 BookmarkletJuly 4, 2012Duration HistogramJuly 4, 2012MoleculeJuly 2, 2012Area with Missing DataJuly 2, 2012Orthographic ShadingJuly 2, 2012UT1 - UTCJune 30, 2012Orthographic ClippingJune 29, 2012Stacked Area via NestJune 29, 2012Margin ConventionJune 29, 2012L*a*b* and HCL color spacesJune 28, 2012ExoplanetsJune 27, 2012Extent TicksJune 26, 2012Zero TicksJune 26, 2012Manual Axis InterpolationJune 24, 2012Orthographic GridJune 22, 2012Pedigree TreeJune 21, 2012Rectilinear GridJune 20, 2012Fisheye GridJune 20, 2012Tree Layout from CSVJune 18, 2012Force Layout from CSVJune 18, 2012W3C Validation ErrorsJune 16, 2012Squares ↔ HexagonsJune 14, 2012Orthographic ProjectionJune 4, 2012Albers USA ProjectionJune 4, 2012Albers ProjectionJune 4, 2012Mercator ProjectionJune 4, 2012Simplifying and cleaning Shapefiles.May 31, 2012Force Layout & Matrix Market FormatMay 31, 2012SVG Path CleaningMay 30, 2012Force-Directed Graph with MouseoverMay 15, 2012SVG SwarmMay 9, 2012Canvas SwarmMay 9, 2012Curved textPathMay 1, 2012"Elbow" DendrogramApril 20, 2012Zoomable GeographyApril 13, 2012Bar Chart with Negative ValuesApril 12, 2012click-to-zoom via transformMarch 26, 2012click-to-center via transformMarch 26, 2012click-to-centerMarch 26, 2012mousewheel-zoom + click-to-centerMarch 26, 2012Hive Plot (Areas)March 17, 2012Hive Plot (Links)March 17, 2012Histogram ChartFebruary 28, 2012Mitchell’s Best-CandidateFebruary 23, 2012offsetX / offsetYFebruary 19, 2012offsetX / offsetYFebruary 17, 2012Month AxisFebruary 16, 2012Automatic Text SizingFebruary 16, 2012Multi-Foci Force LayoutFebruary 11, 2012Force Layout Multiples (Independent)February 11, 2012Input Value InterpolationFebruary 8, 2012Clustered Force Layout IIFebruary 5, 2012Clustered Force Layout IFebruary 5, 2012Point-Along-Path InterpolationJanuary 30, 2012OrderJanuary 28, 2012Queue.js DemoJanuary 28, 2012Focus+Context via BrushingJanuary 23, 2012Static Force LayoutJanuary 23, 2012Smooth ScrollingJanuary 20, 2012Monday-based CalendarJanuary 20, 2012Line Transition (Broken)January 19, 2012Spline TransitionJanuary 19, 2012Line TransitionJanuary 19, 2012Circle Packing Zero ValuesJanuary 17, 2012AutofocusJanuary 17, 2012Circle Packing with Zero ValuesJanuary 17, 2012Irregular HistogramJanuary 16, 2012Irregular Histogram (Lollipop)January 16, 2012Transition Speed TestJanuary 15, 2012Sortable Bar ChartJanuary 9, 2012QuicksortJanuary 9, 2012One Path for All LinksJanuary 8, 2012Cube Realtime MapJanuary 6, 2012Cost of Living - Parallel CoordinatesJanuary 3, 2012Cube Metrics Client (Node.js + WebSockets)January 3, 2012Drag MultiplesJanuary 3, 2012The first commented line is your dabblet’s titleJanuary 1, 2012Expandable MenuDecember 30, 2011BBEdit PreferencesDecember 18, 2011Horizon ChartDecember 15, 2011Image tiles with float: leftDecember 14, 2011Table of ProgressDecember 12, 2011Node + MySQL + JSONDecember 12, 2011selection.orderDecember 6, 2011SVG foreignObject ExampleDecember 2, 2011Left-Aligned TicksNovember 27, 2011A Bar ChartNovember 23, 2011Square Circle Spiral IllusionNovember 22, 2011CirclesNovember 16, 2011D3 PJAXNovember 15, 2011d3.create + selection.adoptNovember 14, 2011Prototype Chart Template (WIP)November 14, 2011Epicyclic GearingNovember 9, 2011Pie Chart Update, IINovember 7, 2011Pie Chart Update, INovember 7, 2011Transform TransitionsNovember 7, 2011SVG feGaussianBlurNovember 5, 2011Log-Log PlotNovember 5, 2011Parallel CoordinatesNovember 4, 20112D Matrix DecompositionNovember 4, 2011Polymaps bad projection exampleNovember 2, 2011D3 and Custom Data AttributesOctober 28, 2011Poor Anti-Aliasing in SVG, #2October 28, 2011Poor Anti-Aliasing in SVG, #1October 28, 2011Case-Sensitivity and SVG-in-HTMLOctober 28, 2011Point-Along-Path InterpolationOctober 25, 2011The Euro Debt CrisisOctober 23, 2011Sunburst with DistortionOctober 22, 2011AutoforkingOctober 21, 2011Pie Multiples with NestingOctober 21, 2011Pie MultiplesOctober 21, 2011D3 Hello WorldOctober 19, 2011Hierarchical Bar ChartOctober 13, 2011DOM-to-Canvas using D3October 10, 2011D3 Show ReelOctober 1, 2011Multi-Foci Force LayoutSeptember 28, 2011Spinny GlobeSeptember 27, 2011Merge SortSeptember 26, 2011D3.js nested dataSeptember 15, 2011Force Layout with Mouseover LabelsSeptember 12, 2011Force Layout with TooltipsSeptember 12, 2011Force Layout from Adjacency ListSeptember 7, 2011Pixymaps (Scrolling)August 29, 2011Pixymaps (Dragging)August 29, 2011style.setPropertyAugust 28, 2011Transition ExampleAugust 27, 2011Array Subclassing TestAugust 26, 2011Transition EndAugust 25, 2011DotsAugust 24, 2011Axis ComponentAugust 23, 2011getBBoxAugust 21, 2011Small MultiplesAugust 19, 2011Mobile Patent SuitsAugust 18, 2011Force-Directed TreeAugust 10, 2011SpermatozoaAugust 10, 2011Stacked Bar ChartAugust 9, 2011Bounded Force LayoutAugust 6, 2011Chained TransitionsAugust 4, 2011Rounded RectanglesAugust 3, 2011Segmented LinesJuly 31, 2011Arc Tween (Clock)July 21, 2011PolarClockJuly 20, 2011Modifying a Force LayoutJuly 20, 2011Collapsible Force LayoutJuly 19, 2011Collapsible Indented TreeJuly 19, 2011HTML Overlay with pageX / pageYJuly 16, 2011Linear GradientJuly 16, 2011Force-Directed Layout from XMLJuly 13, 2011Force-Directed States of AmericaJuly 9, 2011Date TicksJuly 8, 2011Venn Diagram with ClippingJuly 6, 2011Venn Diagram with OpacityJuly 6, 2011OMG Particles!July 3, 2011Force-Directed SymbolsJuly 3, 2011Collapsible Force LayoutJuly 3, 2011Collapsible Tree (Redirect)July 2, 2011Chord DiagramJune 25, 2011Hierarchical Edge BundlingJune 24, 2011Multi-Foci Force LayoutJune 12, 2011Multi-Foci Force LayoutJune 12, 2011Superformula ExplorerJune 11, 2011Superformula TweeningJune 11, 2011Line TensionJune 9, 2011External SVGJune 8, 2011Matrix LayoutJune 5, 2011Zoomable IcicleJune 3, 2011Marimekko ChartJune 2, 2011Random TreeMay 30, 2011Force Layout from ListMay 27, 2011Histogram (Redirect)May 26, 2011TreemapMay 14, 2011Labeled Force LayoutMay 1, 2011Radial Arc DiagramApril 24, 2011Arcs AroundApril 23, 2011Build Your Own Graph!April 19, 2011913077April 11, 2011Reingold–Tilford Tree (Redirect)April 10, 2011910126April 8, 2011908382April 7, 2011908051April 7, 2011d3.geo.tilerApril 2, 2011Google Maps + D3April 2, 2011Polymaps + D3, Part 2April 2, 2011Polymaps + D3April 2, 2011Grouped Bar ChartMarch 22, 2011Fill-Rule EvenoddMarch 14, 2011WindMarch 10, 2011Circular Layout (Raindrops)March 1, 2011Circular Layout (Slider)February 28, 2011Circular Layout (Recursive)February 27, 2011Circular Layout (Arc)February 27, 2011Circular LayoutFebruary 27, 2011d3.nestFebruary 25, 2011Non-Contiguous Cartogram (Redirect)February 24, 2011779986January 14, 2011777029January 12, 2011Moiré PatternsNovember 24, 2010Polymaps / Andrew MagerNovember 22, 2010stroke-dasharrayNovember 18, 2010Rainbow ColorsNovember 13, 2010Fast PointingNovember 11, 2010Voronoi Tessellation (Redirect)November 7, 2010Voronoi Tessellation (Redirect)November 6, 2010Focusable MapsNovember 2, 2010Image ProcessingOctober 26, 2010Image MarkersOctober 25, 2010Fancy Markers (No Gradient)October 25, 2010Polymaps / CSS HoverOctober 14, 2010Resizable MarkersOctober 13, 2010619560October 10, 2010Protovis / Nelson MinarOctober 9, 2010Protovis / Quomo PeteOctober 5, 2010Polymaps / HeatmapOctober 3, 2010Caravaggio’s Bacco (1597)September 29, 2010Nick Jaffe's PolymapSeptember 29, 2010Protovis / David KarrSeptember 28, 2010Labeled pointsSeptember 28, 2010Van Wijk & Nuij ZoomingSeptember 27, 2010Sequential TilesSeptember 25, 2010Hilbert TilesSeptember 25, 2010Polymaps / Andrew MagerSeptember 23, 2010Polymaps / Andrew MagerSeptember 22, 2010Polymaps / Andrew MagerSeptember 22, 2010Polymaps / Andrew MagerSeptember 22, 2010Fancy MarkersSeptember 21, 2010CSSOM/SVG TestSeptember 21, 2010LoupeSeptember 20, 2010Minecraft OverviewerSeptember 19, 2010CSS3 Modal ButtonSeptember 17, 2010Cellular automataSeptember 17, 2010Pale DawnSeptember 16, 2010StreamgraphSeptember 16, 2010582781September 16, 2010Polymaps / JSONP QueueAugust 31, 2010polymaps.appspot.comAugust 26, 2010Polymaps / Procedural PerlinAugust 20, 2010Base64.jsJuly 27, 2010

jasondavies’s blocks

OceanSeptember 26, 2013Vertical Bullet ChartsApril 24, 2013IRI Retrieval BugMarch 29, 2013d3.geo viewport clippingMarch 4, 2013World MapDecember 2, 2012Australia↔AustriaDecember 2, 2012World CountriesDecember 1, 2012Shared DataNovember 29, 2012World Boundaries TopoJSONNovember 16, 2012Streaming CSV Parsing in D3September 28, 2012Clipping Self-IntersectionsSeptember 28, 2012Spiral Stress TestSeptember 28, 2012Gringorten Equal-Area ProjectionSeptember 27, 2012Adaptive ResamplingSeptember 26, 2012LineString CuttingSeptember 24, 2012Stereographic Blue MarbleSeptember 22, 2012Peirce Quincuncial ProjectionSeptember 21, 2012Rotating Guyou HemispheresSeptember 19, 2012Guyou ProjectionSeptember 19, 2012Changing Zoom DomainSeptember 18, 2012Interrupted Goode HomolosineSeptember 17, 2012Interrupted Projection TransitionsSeptember 17, 2012Interrupted Sinusoidal ProjectionSeptember 17, 2012Oblique Hammer ProjectionSeptember 17, 2012Projection Transitions (Atlantis)September 17, 2012Azimuthal Equidistant ProjectionSeptember 16, 2012Interrupted Mollweide HemispheresSeptember 14, 2012Antemeridian CuttingSeptember 14, 2012Zoom by RectangleSeptember 10, 2012longscroll.jsSeptember 10, 2012β(s) SpiralsAugust 27, 2012Chrome Circle Precision BugAugust 1, 2012stopPropagationJuly 27, 2012SVG transform interpolationJuly 24, 2012Spinny GlobeJuly 9, 2012Geographic Clipping: SpiralJuly 9, 2012Geographic Clipping: HolesJuly 9, 2012OMG Particles! (D3)May 8, 2012D3.js Population Bar ChartApril 4, 2012Multiple sparkline transition strangenessMarch 2, 2012Zoom + Pan with Log AxesFebruary 20, 2012offsetX / offsetYFebruary 17, 2012Automatically Sizing Text in D3February 16, 2012d3 Treemap with resizing problemsFebruary 12, 2012alpha-shapes aka concave hulls in d3January 3, 2012Fast highlighting in D3December 31, 2011Parallel CoordinatesNovember 5, 2011Counties of the United KingdomOctober 27, 2011Contour Test using Jason Davies' implementation with D3October 20, 20111299353October 19, 2011Force Layout with fixed Mouseover LabelsOctober 16, 2011Zoom/Pan Map ExampleOctober 13, 2011Geographic projectionsSeptember 4, 2011Paths Example for r43chJuly 27, 2011hexagons testJuly 23, 2011LatticeXY chartJuly 9, 2011Resizable MarkersJuly 7, 2011Pedigree ChartJune 22, 2011915098April 12, 2011735185December 9, 2010618065October 9, 2010588416September 20, 2010286281January 25, 2010140738July 4, 200975321March 7, 2009

https://github.com/mhaidarh/kargu
https://github.com/mhaidarh/kargupy

- blog
- contests
- how to
- inspiration
- repository
- tools
- visualization

Datamob / Resources

Data Wrangler

An interactive tool for data cleaning and transformation. From the Stanford Visualization Group.

Tags tools

Data-Driven Documents

D3.js is a small, free JavaScript library for manipulating documents based on data. By Mike Bostock.

Tags tools, visualization

Google Refine

Google Refine is a power tool for working with messy data, cleaning it up, transforming it from one format into another, extending it with web services, and linking it to databases like Freebase.

Tags tools

Polymaps

A JavaScript library for making dynamic, interactive maps in modern web browsers. By Stamen Design and SimpleGeo.

Tags tools, visualization

Code for America

Code for America helps city governments become more transparent, connected and efficient by connecting the talents of web developers with people who deliver city services and want to embrace the transformative power of the web to achieve more impact with less money. Inspired in part by Teach for America, CFA works with city officials and leading web development talent to identify and then develop web solutions that can then be shared and rolled out more broadly to cities across America.

Tags contests, inspiration

HumbleFinance

HumbleFinance is an HTML5 data visualization tool written as a demonstration of interactive graphing in HTML5. The tool is written entirely in JavaScript, using the Prototype and Flotr libraries. It can be used to display any two 2-D data sets of real numerical data which share an axis.

Tags tools, visualization

Open311

Website aimed at facilitating an international effort to build open interoperable systems that allow citizens to more directly interact with their cities. Run by the Open Planning Project.

Tags blog, inspiration

MapTogether

The MapTogether project provides free map-related training and tools for community and nonprofit groups around the world. Their resources include software, datasets, online mapping services, documentation, and training resources.

Tags blog, tools, how to

Information is Beautiful

Blog by David McCandless which regularly features original data visualizations and associated source data.

Tags blog, inspiration, repository

Tableau Public

A Windows desktop application for easy data visualization and publication on the web.

Tags tools

Protovis

"A graphical approach to visualization" which uses Javascript and SVG for web-native data visualizations. By Mike Bostock and Jeffrey Heer.

Tags tools

City of Vancouver Open Data Catalogue

Catalog of public datasets generated by the City of Vancouver.

Tags repository

R for Programmers

An accessible tutorial on the R programming language and software environment for statistical computing and graphics. By Norm Matloff.

Tags how to

Applications for New South Wales

Development contest from the government of New South Wales in Australia rewarding developers that use government and public data sources related to NSW to create applications.

Tags contests, inspiration

data.australia.gov.au

Catalog of public datasets generated by the Australian government.

Tags repository

MashUp Australia Contest

Development contest from Australia's Government 2.0 Taskforce rewarding developers that use government data sources like those available on data.australia.gov.au to create applications.

Tags contests, inspiration

NYC Big Apps

Development contest from the City of New York rewarding developers that use any of the data sources available on NYC Data Mine to create applications. Judges include John Borthwick, Jason Calacanis, Fred Wilson, Esther Dyson and Kevin Ryan.

Tags contests, inspiration

DataSF

Clearinghouse for datasets published by the City and County of San Francisco.

Tags repository

DataMasher

Tool for mashing up datasets from the U.S. government to see how states compare on important issues.

Tags tools, repository

Sunlight Labs on GitHub

Resources and code from Sunlight Labs, available for download.

Tags repository

USGovXML

Index to the publicly availably web services and XML data sources provided by the U.S. government.

Tags repository

Data.gov

Catalog of public datasets generated by the Executive Branch of the U.S. Federal Government.

Tags repository

Apps for America 2: The Data.gov Challenge

Development contest from Sunlight Labs rewarding developers that use any of the data sources on Data.gov to create applications. Judges include Tim O'Reilly of O'Reilly Media and Chris DiBona, open source program manager at Google.

Tags contests, inspiration

GovFresh

A live feed of official news from U.S. Government Twitter, YouTube, RSS, Facebook, Flickr accounts and more.

Tags tools, repository

Circos

A GPL-licensed visualization tool that can help show relationships in data.

Tags tools

Real-World Data Sets

A list of small real-world data sets collected from the web.

Tags repository

Our Open Government List

Area to submit and vote on ideas for inclusion in U.S. President Obama's forthcoming Open Government Directive.

Tags inspiration

Hacking Congress

Hub for projects at the intersection of civics and technology, focusing on projects related to the U.S. Congress and state-level legislatures.

Tags repository

Yes We Scan

Website of the campaign to appoint Carl Malamud Public Printer of the United States, head of the Government Printing Office. Endorsed by Datamob.

Tags inspiration

CloudMade

CloudMade provides a variety of resources to help developers build location-based apps using data from OpenStreetMap, including geocoding services and a mapping API with wrappers for Ruby, Python, and Java.

Tags tools

Google App Engine

The Google App Engine allows developers to run Python applications on Google infrastructure. Accounts are free up to monthly bandwidth and storage limits and users can pay for resources they use past those limits.

Tags tools

DBSlayer

A lightweight database abstraction layer suitable for high-load websites where you need the scalable advantages of connection pooling. Written in C for speed, DBSlayer talks to clients via JSON over HTTP, meaning it's simple to monitor and can swiftly interoperate with any web framework you choose.

Tags tools

Open Blog

A blog about open-source technology at The New York Times, written by and for developers.

Tags blog, inspiration

Google Chart API

Dynamically generate chart images. See a lovely example on the Datamob about page.

Tags tools, visualization

AJAX API Playground

Sandbox for 8 Google JavaScript APIs (Maps, Search, Feeds, Calendar, Visualization, Language, Blogger, Libraries and Earth). Play with 170 samples and save or export your own work.

Tags tools, inspiration, how to

Freebase Acre

Easily build JavaScript web apps that run on Freebase data using this integrated app development and hosting platform. Check out the Freebase API and Data Dumps.

Tags tools

Harvestman Crawler

Python-based web crawler that can be used to download files from websites according to a number of customized rules and constraints.

Tags tools

Datahub

Python-based tool that allows for faster downloading, parsing, loading and visualization of data.

Tags tools

Apps for America

Development contest rewarding developers that use data from Sunlight Labs to create applications that make U.S. Congress more accountable, interactive and transparent.

Tags contests, inspiration

Public Data Sets on Amazon Web Services (AWS)

Repository of public data sets that can be seamlessly integrated into AWS cloud-based applications. Available data ranges from Human Genome data from Ensembl to a variety of U.S. Census data.

Tags tools, repository

GeoCommons

Hub for geographical data and map-making.

Tags tools, repository

Apps for Democracy

$20K in prizes for the most useful applications developed from the Washington, D.C. Data Catalog.

Tags contests, inspiration

Cytoscape

Open source bioinformatics software platform for visualizing molecular interaction networks or network graphs of any kind involving nodes and edges (e.g., social networks).

Tags tools, visualization

The New York Times Visualization Lab

Create visualizations of data and information presented by the New York Times using the "Many Eyes" technology from IBM Research.

Tags tools, visualization

Modest Maps

Display and interaction library for tile-based maps in Flash and Python.

Tags tools, visualization

Mesh Processing Library

Library for creating Voronoi, Delaunay and Convex Hull diagrams in Processing. By Lee Byron.

Tags tools, visualization

Show Us a Better Way

UK government-sponsored competition for ideas on how to put public data to good use.

Tags contests, inspiration

Mapstraction

Mapstraction provides a common API for various JavaScript mapping APIs, allowing developers to easily change the mapping provider of their application.

Tags tools, visualization

Beautiful Soup

Python HTML/XML parser, for screen-scraping data sources that don't yet offer downloadable data or an API.

Tags tools

Obsessing

Web-based Processing.js sandbox.

Tags tools, visualization

Processing.js

A JavaScript version of the Processing visualization language. By John Resig.

Tags tools, visualization, how to

WikiViz: Tools

Annotated list of tools for data visualization.

Tags tools, visualization, repository

Prefuse Visualization Toolkit

Free set of tools for creating rich interactive data visualizations.

Tags tools, visualization, how to

Numbrary

Free library of useful numbers.

Tags repository

CKAN - Comprehensive Knowledge Archive Network

Large registry of open knowledge packages and projects.

Tags repository

Hpricot HTML Parser

A fast and delightful HTML parser for Ruby, for data sources that don't yet offer downloadable data or an API.

Tags tools

Flowing Data

Blog that explores how statisticians, designers, computer scientists and others are using data to help us understand more about ourselves and our surroundings.

Tags blog, visualization, how to

Flare Visualization Toolkit

A collection of ActionScript 3 classes for building interactive visualizations on the web.

Tags tools, visualization, how to

Graphviz

Open source graph visualization software with a web interface.

Tags tools, visualization, how to

Sunlight Foundation

Nonprofit organization that supports, develops and deploys new internet technologies to make information about the activities of the U.S. federal government more accessible to Americans.

Tags inspiration

« Previous 1 2 3 Next »

Google App Engine

The Google App Engine allows developers to run Python applications on Google infrastructure. Accounts are free up to monthly bandwidth and storage limits and users can pay for resources they use past those limits.

Tags tools

DBSlayer

A lightweight database abstraction layer suitable for high-load websites where you need the scalable advantages of connection pooling. Written in C for speed, DBSlayer talks to clients via JSON over HTTP, meaning it's simple to monitor and can swiftly interoperate with any web framework you choose.

Tags tools

Open Blog

A blog about open-source technology at The New York Times, written by and for developers.

Tags blog, inspiration

Google Chart API

Dynamically generate chart images. See a lovely example on the Datamob about page.

Tags tools, visualization

AJAX API Playground

Sandbox for 8 Google JavaScript APIs (Maps, Search, Feeds, Calendar, Visualization, Language, Blogger, Libraries and Earth). Play with 170 samples and save or export your own work.

Tags tools, inspiration, how to

Freebase Acre

Easily build JavaScript web apps that run on Freebase data using this integrated app development and hosting platform. Check out the Freebase API and Data Dumps.

Tags tools

Harvestman Crawler

Python-based web crawler that can be used to download files from websites according to a number of customized rules and constraints.

Tags tools

Datahub

Python-based tool that allows for faster downloading, parsing, loading and visualization of data.

Tags tools

Apps for America

Development contest rewarding developers that use data from Sunlight Labs to create applications that make U.S. Congress more accountable, interactive and transparent.

Tags contests, inspiration

Public Data Sets on Amazon Web Services (AWS)

Repository of public data sets that can be seamlessly integrated into AWS cloud-based applications. Available data ranges from Human Genome data from Ensembl to a variety of U.S. Census data.

Tags tools, repository

GeoCommons

Hub for geographical data and map-making.

Tags tools, repository

Apps for Democracy

$20K in prizes for the most useful applications developed from the Washington, D.C. Data Catalog.

Tags contests, inspiration

Cytoscape

Open source bioinformatics software platform for visualizing molecular interaction networks or network graphs of any kind involving nodes and edges (e.g., social networks).

Tags tools, visualization

The New York Times Visualization Lab

Create visualizations of data and information presented by the New York Times using the "Many Eyes" technology from IBM Research.

Tags tools, visualization

Modest Maps

Display and interaction library for tile-based maps in Flash and Python.

Tags tools, visualization

Mesh Processing Library

Library for creating Voronoi, Delaunay and Convex Hull diagrams in Processing. By Lee Byron.

Tags tools, visualization

Show Us a Better Way

UK government-sponsored competition for ideas on how to put public data to good use.

Tags contests, inspiration

Mapstraction

Mapstraction provides a common API for various JavaScript mapping APIs, allowing developers to easily change the mapping provider of their application.

Tags tools, visualization

Beautiful Soup

Python HTML/XML parser, for screen-scraping data sources that don't yet offer downloadable data or an API.

Tags tools

Obsessing

Web-based Processing.js sandbox.

Tags tools, visualization

Processing.js

A JavaScript version of the Processing visualization language. By John Resig.

Tags tools, visualization, how to

WikiViz: Tools

Annotated list of tools for data visualization.

Tags tools, visualization, repository

Prefuse Visualization Toolkit

Free set of tools for creating rich interactive data visualizations.

Tags tools, visualization, how to

Numbrary

Free library of useful numbers.

Tags repository

CKAN - Comprehensive Knowledge Archive Network

Large registry of open knowledge packages and projects.

Tags repository

Hpricot HTML Parser

A fast and delightful HTML parser for Ruby, for data sources that don't yet offer downloadable data or an API.

Tags tools

Flowing Data

Blog that explores how statisticians, designers, computer scientists and others are using data to help us understand more about ourselves and our surroundings.

Tags blog, visualization, how to

Flare Visualization Toolkit

A collection of ActionScript 3 classes for building interactive visualizations on the web.

Tags tools, visualization, how to

Graphviz

Open source graph visualization software with a web interface.

Tags tools, visualization, how to

Sunlight Foundation

Nonprofit organization that supports, develops and deploys new internet technologies to make information about the activities of the U.S. federal government more accessible to Americans.

Tags inspiration

EPA

The aim of these web-pages is to help the IETF community as follows:

- Make it easy to find existing tools
- Provide means of feedback on existing and new tools (wiki and mailing list)
- Provide information on new and updated tools

http://people.apache.org/projects.html

Deep Learning Software Links
Software links

Theano – CPU/GPU symbolic expression compiler in python (from LISA lab at University of Montreal)

Pylearn2 - Pylearn2 is a library designed to make machine learning research easy.

Torch – provides a Matlab-like environment for state-of-the-art machine learning algorithms in lua (from Ronan Collobert, Clement Farabet and Koray Kavukcuoglu)

Deep Learning Tutorials – examples of how to do Deep Learning with Theano (from LISA lab at University of Montreal)

DeepLearnToolbox – A Matlab toolbox for Deep Learning (from Rasmus Berg Palm)

Cuda-Convnet – A fast C++/CUDA implementation of convolutional (or more generally, feed-forward) neural networks. It can model arbitrary layer connectivity and network depth. Any directed acyclic graph of layers will do. Training is done using the back-propagation algorithm.

Deep Belief Networks. Matlab code for learning Deep Belief Networks (from Ruslan Salakhutdinov).

RNNLM- Tomas Mikolov’s Recurrent Neural Network based Language models Toolkit.

RNNLIB-RNNLIB is a recurrent neural network library for sequence learning problems. Applicable to most types of spatiotemporal data, it has proven particularly effective for speech and handwriting recognition.

matrbm. Simplified version of Ruslan Salakhutdinov’s code, by Andrej Karpathy (Matlab).

deepmat- Deepmat, Matlab based deep learning algorithms.

Estimating Partition Functions of RBM’s. Matlab code for estimating partition functions of Restricted Boltzmann Machines using Annealed Importance Sampling (from Ruslan Salakhutdinov).

Learning Deep Boltzmann Machines Matlab code for training and fine-tuning Deep Boltzmann Machines (from Ruslan Salakhutdinov).

The LUSH programming language and development environment, which is used @ NYU for deep convolutional networks

Eblearn.lsh is a LUSH-based machine learning library for doing Energy-Based Learning. It includes code for “Predictive Sparse Decomposition” and other sparse auto-encoder methods for unsupervised learning. Koray Kavukcuoglu provides Eblearn code for several deep learning papers on this page.

Nengo-Nengo is a graphical and scripting based software package for simulating large-scale neural systems.

Eblearn is a C++ machine learning library with a BSD license for energy-based learning, convolutional networks, vision/recognition applications, etc. EBLearn is primarily maintained by Pierre Sermanet at NYU.

cudamat is a GPU-based matrix library for Python. Example code for training Neural Networks and Restricted Boltzmann Machines is included.

Gnumpy is a Python module that interfaces in a way almost identical to numpy, but does its computations on your computer’s GPU. It runs on top of cudamat.

The CUV Library (github link) is a C++ framework with python bindings for easy use of Nvidia CUDA functions on matrices. It contains an RBM implementation, as well as annealed importance sampling code and code to calculate the partition function exactly (from AIS lab at University of Bonn).

3-way factored RBM and mcRBM is python code calling CUDAMat to train models of natural images (from Marc’Aurelio Ranzato).

Matlab code for training conditional RBMs/DBNs and factored conditional RBMs (from Graham Taylor).

mPoT is python code using CUDAMat and gnumpy to train models of natural images (from Marc’Aurelio Ranzato).

neuralnetworks is a java based gpu library for deep learning algorithms.

http://scikit-learn.org/stable/auto_examples/decomposition/plot_faces_decomposition.html

http://scikit-learn.org/stable/auto_examples/neighbors/plot_species_kde.html

http://scikit-learn.org/stable/auto_examples/decomposition/plot_image_denoising.html

http://scikit-learn.org/stable/auto_examples/semi_supervised/plot_label_propagation_structure.html

http://scikit-learn.org/stable/auto_examples/tree/plot_iris.html

http://scikit-learn.org/stable/auto_examples/tree/plot_tree_regression_multioutput.html

http://scikit-learn.org/stable/auto_examples/applications/plot_stock_market.html

http://wiki.scipy.org/Cookbook

Installing the SciPy Stack¶

These are instructions for installing the full SciPy stack. For installing individual packages, such as NumPy and SciPy, see Individual binary and source packages below.

Scientific Python distributions

For most users, especially on Windows and Mac, the easiest way to install the packages of the SciPy stack is to download one of these Python distributions, which includes all the key packages:

- Anaconda: A free distribution for the SciPy stack. Supports Linux, Windows and Mac.
- Enthought Canopy: The free and commercial versions include the core SciPy stack packages. Supports Linux, Windows and Mac.
- Python(x,y): A free distribution including the SciPy stack, based around the Spyder IDE. Windows only.
- WinPython: A free distribution including the SciPy stack. Windows only.
- Pyzo: A free distribution based on Python 3 (see Note on Python 3) with the IEP editor. Supports Linux and Windows.
- Algorete Loopy: A free, community oriented distribution for the SciPy stack maintained by researches at Dartmouth College. Loopy supports both Python 2 and 3 on Linux, Windows and Mac OSX. The distribution is derived from Anaconda with additional packages (e.g. Space Physics, BioInformatics).

Individual binary and source packages¶

The maintainers of many of the packages in the SciPy stack provide “official” binary installers for common Windows and OS-X systems that can be used to install the packages one by one. These installers are generally built to be compatible with the Python binaries available from python.org.

- python
- numpy
- scipy
- matplotlib
- ipython
- pandas
- sympy
- nose

Modules:

pyFerret - PyFerret is a Python module wrapping Ferret. The pyferret module provides Python functions so Python users can easily take advantage of the Ferret's abilities to retrieve, manipulate, visualize, and save data. There are also functions to move data between Python and the Ferret engine. Python scripts used as Ferret external functions.

PyNGL - PyNGL is a Python language module used to visualize scientific data, with an emphasis on high quality 2D visualizations. Sort of interface to NCL plotting functions.

python-gsw - Python implementation of the Thermodynamic Equation Of Seawater - 2010 (TEOS-10)

python-seawater - Translated version of the matlab CSIRO seawater toolbox (EOS80)

python-ctd - Tools to load hydrographic data into pandas DataFrame (and some rudimentary methods for data pre-processing/analysis). This module can load SeaBird CTD (CNV), Sippican XBT (EDF), and Falmouth CTD (ASCII) formats.

python-oceans - various scripts and functions.

TAPPY - a tidal analysis package.

python interface for CDO

pyresample - Resampling (reprojection) of geospatial image data in Python. Pyresample uses a kd-tree approach for resampling. Pyresample is designed for resampling of remote sensing data and supports resampling from both fixed grids and geolocated swath data.

CliMT: An object-oriented Climate Modeling and diagnostics Toolkit

jasmin-cis - This is a community effort to develop an automated model/data community intercomparison suite (CIS) within the JASMIN environment at the Centre for Environmental Data Archiving (CEDA) that will provide automated scientific analysis of heterogeneous datasets from models and observations.

A gallery of interesting IPython Notebooks

This page is a curated collection of IPython notebooks that are notable for some reason. Feel free to add new content here, but please try to only include links to notebooks that include interesting visual or technical content; this should not simply be a dump of a Google search on every ipynb file out there.

Important contribution instructions: If you add new content, please ensure that for any notebook you link to, the link is to the rendered version using nbviewer, rather than the raw file. Simply paste the notebook URL in the nbviewer box and copy the resulting URL of the rendered version. This will make it much easier for visitors to be able to immediately access the new content.

Note that Matt Davis has conveniently written a set of bookmarklets and extensions to make it a one-click affair to load a Notebook URL into your browser of choice, directly opening into nbviewer.

Entire books or other large collections of notebooks on a topic

- First things first, how to run code in the IPython Notebook, this is one of IPython's official notebook example collection. Another useful one from this group, an explanation of our rich display system.

- A great matplotlib tutorial, part of the fantastic Lectures on Scientific Computing with Python by J.R. Johansson.

- A single-atom laser model. This is one of a complete set of lectures on quantum mechanics and quantum optics using QuTiP by J.R. Johansson.

- An introduction to Bayesian inference, this is just chapter 1 in an ongoing book titled Probabilistic Programming and Bayesian Methods for Hackers Using Python and PyMC, by Cameron Davidson-Pilon.

- Desperately Seeking Silver, one of the homework sets for Harvard's CS 109 Data Science course.

- Learn Data Science, an entire self-directed course by Nitin Borwankar.

- An introduction to machine learning with Python and scikit-learn (repo and overview) by Hannes Schulz and Andreas Mueller.

- An introduction to Compressed Sensing, part of Python for Signal Processing: an entire book (and blog) on the subject by Jose Unpingco.

- 2-d rigid-body transformations. This is part of Scientific Computing in Biomechanics and Motor Control, a complete collection of notebooks by Marcos Duarte.

- Introduction to Programming (using Python), an entire introductory Python course written by Eric Matthes. This post explains the educational context in an Alaskan high school where Eric is a teacher.

- Python for Developers, a complete book on Python programming by Ricardo Duarte. Note the book also exists in Portuguese.

- CS1001.py - Extended Introduction to Computer Science. Recitations from Tel-Aviv University introductory course to computer science, assembled as IPython notebooks by Yoav Ram.

- An introduction to Pandas, part of an 11-lesson tutorial on Pandas, by Hernán Rojas.

- Graphical Representations of Linear Models, an illustration of the Seaborn statistical visualization library, that also includes Visualizing distributions of data and Representing variability in timeseries plots. By Michael Waskom.

- Understanding model reliability, part of a complete course on statistics and data analysis for psychologists by Michael Waskom.

- Neural Networks, part of a collection on machine learning by Aaron Masino.

- Mining the Social Web (2nd Edition). A complete collection of notebooks accompanying Matthew Russel's book by O'Reilly.

- Find graffitis close to NY subway entrances, one of a rich collection of notebooks on large-scale data analysis, by Roy Hyunjin Han.

- Astrophysical simulations and analysis with yt: a collection of example notebooks on using various codes that yt interfaces with: Enzo, Gadget, RAMSES, PKDGrav and Gasoline. Note: the yt site currently throws an SSL warning, they seem to have an outdated or self-signed certificate.

- CFD Python: 12 steps to Navier-Stokes. A complete set of lectures on CFD, from 1-d linear waves to full 2-d Navier-Stokes, by Lorena Barba.

- Python for Geosciences, a tutorial series aimed at the Earth Sciences community, by Nikolay Koldunov.

- Python for Data Analysis, an introductory collection from the CU Boulder Research Computing Group.

- The Kaggle bulldozers competition example, one of a set on tutorials on exploratory data analysis with the copper toolkit by Daniel Rodríguez.

- Working with Reactions, part of a set of tutorials on cheminformatics and machine learning with the rdkit project, by Greg Landrum.

- Sound Analysis with the Fourier Transform. A set of IPython Notebooks by Caleb Madrigal to explain what the Fourier Transform is and how to use it for basic audio processing applications.

- Logistic models of well switching in Bangladesh, part of the "Will it Python" blog series (repo) on Machine Learning and data analysis in Python. By Carl Vogel.

- EarthPy, a collection of IPython notebooks with a focus on Earth Sciences, from whale tracks to the flow of the Amazon.

- Machine Learning with the Shogun Toolbox. This is a complete service that includes a ready-to-run IPython instance with a collection of notebooks illustrating the use of the Shogun Toolbox. Just log in and start running the examples.

Scientific computing and data analysis with the SciPy Stack

General topics in scientific computing

- A Crash Course in Python for Scientists, by Sandia's Rick Muller.

- A gentle introduction to scientific programming in Python, biased towards biologists, by Mickey Atwal, Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory.

- First few lectures of the UW/Coursera course on Data Analysis. (Repo) by Chris Fonnesbeck.

- Linear algebra with Cython. A tutorial that styles the notebook differently to show that you can produce high-quality typography online with the Notebook. By Carl Vogel.

- CythonGSL: a Cython interface for the GNU Scientific Library (GSL) (Project repo, by Thomas Wiecki.

- A Plotly demo on using the Plotly graphing API to make interactive, collaborative, publication-quality graphs, explained more fully by this talk.

- Exploring seafloor habitats: geographic analysis using IPython Notebook with GRASS & R. This embeds a slideshow and a Web Spinning Globe (Cesium) in the notebook. By Massimo Di Stefano.

- Data and visualization integration via web based resources. Using NetCDF, Matplotlib, IPython Parallel and ffmpeg to generate video animation from time series of gridded data. By Massimo Di Stefano.

- Exploring how smooth-looking functions can have very surprising derivatives even at low orders, combining SymPy and matplotlib. By Javier Moreno.

- Using Numba to speed up numerical codes. And another Numba example: self-organizing maps.

- Numpy performance tricks, and blog post, by Cyrille Rossant.

- IPython Parallel Push/Execute/Pull Demo by Justin Riley.

- Understanding the design of the R "formula" objects. By Matthew Brett.

- Multibody dynamics and control with Python and the notebook file by Jason K. Moore.

- Comparing different approaches to evolutionary simulations. Also available here to better visualization. The notebook was converted to a HTML presentation using an old nbconvert with the first developing implementation of reveal converter. By Yoav Ram.

- A Collection of Applied Mathematics and Machine Learning Tutorials (in Turkish). By Burak Bayramli.

- An introduction to parallel machine learning with sklearn, joblib and IPython.parallel, a notebook that accompanies this slide deck by Olivier Grisel.

- A tutorial introduction to machine learning with sklearn, an IPython-based slide deck by Andreas Mueller.

- Face Recognition on a subset of the Labeled Faces in the Wild dataset, by Olivier Grisel.

- Manipulation and display of chemical structures, by Greg Landrum, using rdkit.

- A Plotly tutorial on using the Plotly graphing API to make graphs with multiple axes, subplots, and insets.

- The sound of Hydrogen, visualizing and listening to the quantum-mechanical spectrum of Hydrogen. By Matthias Bussonnier.

- Function minimization with iminuit, an introductory companion to their hard core tutorial. By the iminuit project.

- PyOracle: Automatic analysis of musical structure, by Greg Surges.

- Chebfun in Python, a demo of PyChebfun, by Olivier Verdier. PyChebfun is a pure-python implementation of the celebrated Chebfun package by Battles and Trefethen.

- An Introduction to Bayesian Methods for Multilevel Modeling, by Chris Fonnesbeck.

- Bayesian data analysis with PyMC3 by Thomas Wiecki.

- Modeling psychophysical data with non-linear functions by Ariel Rokem.

- Visualizing mathematical models of brain cell connections. The effect of convolution of different receptive field functions and natural images is examined.

- The Traveling Salesperson Problem by Peter Norvig.

- A git tutorial targeted at scientists by Fernando Perez.

- Particle physics at the Large Hadron Collider (LHC): using ROOT in an LHCb masterclass: Notebook 1 and Notebook 2 notebooks by Alexander Mazurov and Andrey Ustyuzhanin at CERN.

- Survival Analysis, an illustration of the lifelines library, by Cam Davidson Pilon.

- A Reaction-Diffusion Equation Solver in Python with Numpy, a demonstration of how IPython notebooks can be used to discuss both the theory and implementation of numerical algorithms on one page, by Georg Walther.

- The Discrete Cosine Transform, a brief explanation and illustration of the math behind the DCT and its role in the JPEG image format, by Jim Mahoney.

Pandas for data analysis

Note that in the 'collections' section above there are also pandas-related links, such as the one for an 11-lesson tutorial.

- A 10-minute whirlwind tour of pandas, this is the notebook accompanying a video presentation by Wes McKinney, author of Pandas and the Python for Data Analysis book.

- Time-series analysis with Pandas.

- Financial data analysis with Pandas.

- Clustering of smartphone sensor data for human activity detection using pandas and scipy, part of Coursera data analysis course, done in Python (repo).

- Log analysis with Pandas, part of a group presented at PyConCa 2012 by Taavi Burns.

- Analyzing and visualizing sun spot data with Pandas, by Josh Hemann. An enlightening discussion of how naive plotting choices subtly influence our interpretation of data.

- Advanced analysis of Apache logs, by Nikolay Koldunov.

Social data

- A reconstruction of Nate Silver's 538 model for the 2012 US Presidential Election, by Skipper Seabold (complete repo).

- Data about the Sandy Hook massacre in Newtown, Conneticut, which accompanies a more detailed blog post on the subject. Here are the notebook and accompanying data. By Brian Keegan.

- More on gun violence analysis with Wikipedia data.

- An analysis of the Gaza-Israel 2012 crisis.

- Ranking NFL Teams. The full repo also includes an explanatory slideshow. By Sean Taylor.

- Automated processing of news media and generation of associated imagery.

- An analysis of national school standardized test data in Colombia using Pandas (in Spanish). By Javier Moreno.

- Getting started with GDELT, by David Masad. GDELT is a dataset containing more than 200-million geolocated events with global coverage for 1979 to the present. Another GDELT example from David, that nicely integrates mapping visualizations.

- A geographic analysis of Indonesian conflicts in 2012 with GDELT, by herrfz.

- Bioinformatic Approaches to the Computation of Poetic Meter, by A. Sean Pue, C. Titus Brown and Tracy Teal.

- Replication of the highly-contentious analysis of economic growth by Reinhart and Rogoff, by Vincent Arel-Bundock, full repo here. This is based on the widely-publicized critique of the original analysis done by Herndon, Ash, and Pollin.

- Analyzing the Vélib dataset from Paris, by Cyrille Rossant (Vélib is Paris' bicycle-sharing program).

- Using Python to see how the Times writes about men and women, by Neal Caren.

- Exploring graph properties of the Twitter stream with twython and NetworkX, by F. Perez (complete gist repo with utilities here.)

- Kaggle Competition: Titanic Machine Learning from Disaster. By Andrew Conti.

- How clean are San Francisco's restaurants?, a data science tutorial that accompanies a blog post from Zipfian Academy.

Natural Language Processing

- Python Programming for the Humanities by Folgert Karsdorp & Maarten van Gompel.

General Python Programming

- Learning to code with Python, part of an introduction to Python from the Waterloo Python users group.

- Python Descriptors Demystified, an in-depth discussion of the descriptor protocol in Python, by Chris Beaumont.

Julia notebooks

The IPython protocols to communicate between kernels and clients are language agnostic, and other programming language communities have started to build support for this protocol in their language. The Julia team has created IJulia, and these are some Julia notebooks:

- Fractals 3 ways, by Jeff Bezanson.

- The Design Impact of Multiple Dispatch, a detailed explanation of Julia's multiple dispatch design, by Stefan Karpinski.

- A demonstration and tutorial on making interactive graphs with Plotly and Julia.

Ruby notebooks

Similar to the Julia kernel there exists also a Ruby kernel for IPython.

- IRuby Demo Notebook

Miscellaneous topics about doing various things with the Notebook itself

- Blogging With IPython in Blogger, also available in blog post form, full repo here. By Fernando Perez.

- Blogging With IPython in Octopress, by Jake van der Plas and available as a blog post. Other notebooks by Jake contain many more great examples of doing interesting work with the scientific Python stack.

- Blogging With IPython in Nikola, also available in blog post form by Damián Avila.

- Custom CSS control of the notebook, this is part of a blog repo by Matthias Bussonnier.

- IPython display hookery: tools to help display visual output from various sources, a gist by @deeplook.

- Importing IPython Notebooks as Modules by Min RK.

Reproducible academic publications

This section contains academic papers that have been published in the peer-reviewed literature or pre-print sites such as the ArXiv that include one or more notebooks that enable (even if only partially) readers to reproduce the results of the publication. If you include a publication here, please link to the journal article as well as providing the nbviewer notebook link (and any other relevant resources associated with the paper).

- powerlaw: a Python package for analysis of heavy-tailed distributions, by J. Alstott et al.. Notebook of examples in manuscript, ArXiv link and project repository.

- Collaborative cloud-enabled tools allow rapid, reproducible biological insights, by B. Ragan-Kelley et al.. The main notebook, the full collection of related notebooks and the companion site with the Amazon AMI information for reproducing the full paper.

- A Reference-Free Algorithm for Computational Normalization of Shotgun Sequencing Data, by C.T. Brown et al.. Full notebook, ArXiv link and project repository.

- The kinematics of the Local Group in a cosmological context by J.E. Forero-Romero et al.. The Full notebook and also all the data in a github repo.

- Warming Ocean Threatens Sea Life, an article in Scientific American backed by a notebook for its main plot. By Roberto de Almeida from MarinExplore.

- Extrapolating Weak Selection in Evolutionary Games, by Wu, García, Hauert and Traulsen. PLOS Comp Bio paper and Figshare link.

- Using neural networks to estimate redshift distributions. An application to CFHTLenS by Christopher Bonnett paper(submitted to MNRAS)

- Mechanisms for stable, robust, and adaptive development of orientation maps in the primary visual cortex by Jean-Luc R. Stevens, Judith S. Law, Jan Antolik, and James A. Bednar. Journal of Neuroscience, 33:15747-15766, 2013. Notebook1, Notebook2.

Whimsical notebooks

- XKCD-styled plots created with Matplotlib. Here is the blog post version with discussion. By Jake van der Plas.

- Van Gogh's Starry Night with ipythonblocks, part of Matt Davis' ipythonblocks. This is a teaching tool for use with the IPython notebook that provides visual elements to understand programming concepts.

- Conway's Game of Life. Interesting use of convolution operation to calculate the next state of game board, instead of obvious find neighbors and filter the board for next state.

- "People plots", stick figures generated with matplotlib.

- Reveal converter mini-tutorial, also available in blog post form. Do you want to make static html/css slideshow straight from the IPython notebook? OK, now you can do it with the reveal converter (nbconvert). Demo by Damián Avila.

Videos of IPython being used in the wild

Of course the first thing you might try is searching for videos about IPython (1900 or so by last count on Youtube) but there are demonstrations of other applications using the power of IPython but are not mentioned is the descriptions. Below are a few such:

- Video on how to learn Python featuring IPython as the platform of choice for learning!

- This video shows IPython being used in the scikit project

- He doesn't show IPython in use but his IPython sticker is clear for the entire video: Planning and Tending the Garden: The Future of Early Childhood Python Education

- Wes McKinney's speech on Python and data analysis features IPython as does his book Python for Data Analysis

http://viz-carbontool.appspot.com/about

http://data.unep-wcmc.org/datasets
http://protectedplanet.net/

http://mangrove-validation.unepwcmc-005.vm.brightbox.net/

http://simplex.giss.nasa.gov/snapshots/

http://www.giss.nasa.gov/tools/panoply/

Employment Opportunities

No information about specific opportunities is currently available on these pages.

NASA Employment

Information about possible NASA civil service openings at the Goddard Institute for Space Studies may be listed at the NASA Jobs or USA Jobs websites.

NASA Postdoctoral Research

Opportunities for postdoctoral research at NASA GISS are ongoing through the Oak Ridge Associated Universities NASA Postdoctoral Program (ORAU-NPP), Columbia University Earth Institute Fellows Program, and other programs.
+ Read More

University Research Staff

Opportunities for postdoctoral research and research support positions at NASA GISS through Columbia University's Center for Climate Systems Reesarch (CCSR) not listed above may be announced on the university's employment opportunities website. Select department "6060 - EIM Centers & Divisions" to search for opportunities specific to CSSR.
+ Go to Website

Contract Support

For information regarding potential computer programming, operations, and other support openings at NASA GISS through our contractor office, please contact Ms. Evelyn DeJesus-Quiles, Trinnovim LLC, 2880 Broadway, New York, NY 10025.

Internships

Most summer research internship positions at NASA GISS are managed through the New York City Research Initiative. Application due dates are typically in mid to late winter.
+ Read More

http://docketwrench.sunlightfoundation.com/search-document-non-fr/climate
http://tryit.sunlightfoundation.com/capitolwords

http://cnee.colostate.edu/
http://1bog.org/user/signup/
http://www.slammview.org/
http://www.nwf.org/
http://www.iucn.org
http://www.epa.gov/cleanenergy/energy-resources/calculator.html
http://hes.lbl.gov/consumer/
http://apps.usa.gov/fueleconomy-gov.shtml

http://energy.usgs.gov/OilGas/AssessmentsData/WorldPetroleumAssessment/WorldGeologicMaps.aspx

http://www.afdc.energy.gov/tse_locator/

http://www.afdc.energy.gov/fuels/data_methods_tse.html
http://www.idleair.com/
http://www.envirodock.com/

http://www.energystar.gov/index.cfm?c=thermostats.progThermostat

https://nest.com

http://geoplatform.maps.arcgis.com/home/webmap/viewer.html?webmap=2960f1e066544582ae0f0d988ccb3d27

http://geoplatform.maps.arcgis.com/home/gallery.html#c=organization&o=modified

Software

Applications

Applications focus on visualizing a particular data structure, and all of them are being used for different research problems.

- 3DVisualizer
3DVisualizer is a program for exploring gridded data ranging from serial sections of rocks to model results to computed tomography data. It has diverse visualization features and analytical tools that combined with rapid, real-time rendering allow exploration of complicated data sets. (Download) See this YouTube video as an example.

- LidarViewer
LidarViewer allows users to view and analyze point cloud datasets without sub-sampling or reducing the data. The program will load in a point cloud and display each individual point from the survey. The LidarViewer allows the user to select points and extract them to a separate file, extract primitives (plane, sphere, cylinder) from selected points, determine distance from a plane, and navigate in real-time through large datasets (>1.2 billion points). It is a powerful tool that can provide unique perspectives to LiDAR datasets that are difficult to attain through DEMs. (Download) See this YouTube video as an example.

- Crusta
Crusta allows real-time visualization of different resolution topographic and imagery data on a Virtual Globe. Users can map features, rapidly change scales, and view data from oblique angles. (Near Release) See this YouTube video as an example for Earth and this YouTube channel for examples for Mars.

- Flow
Flow (formerly called Dynamics Toolset) is a program for exploring dynamical systems. The program consists of specialized tools to visualize chaotic behaviors, pattern emergence, and mathematical structures. Flow is currently being substantially revised and will not be ready for release until summer or fall 2012. The older Dynamics Toolkit can be downloaded here.

- Mycelia
Mycelia is a 3D network visualization tool. Networks can be loaded from Graphviz, XML, Chaco, or GraphML files, and graphs can be modified in Mycelia saved in Graphviz format. Graph theory algorithms are provided by the Boost library, and graphs can be interactively made and manipulated in iPython. Mycelia is currently being substantially revised and a new version will be ready for release later in 2012. The older version can be downloaded here.

Tools/Libraries

Tools and libraries provide basic or extra functionality to applications.

- Vrui
Vrui is a C++ software development toolkit for highly interactive virtual reality applications, with a focus on portability between vastly different virtual reality environments, from laptop or desktop computers to CAVEs and other fully immersive 3D systems.

- VruiVnc
VruiVnc is a Virtual Network Computing client for controlling the desktop of a remote computer from within the cave. It allows you to project a personal computer screen on a window in the cave, you can manipulate that window, and you can beam data from within the cave to the external computer.

- ToolBox
ToolBox is a library that implements an additional tool management layer on top of tools provided by Vrui. Its primary purpose is to allow a different model of managing multiple tools on a single device. It supports named buttons, tool icons, and extensible handling of events, e.g. for implementing different notions of tool switching. Currently there is just one such extension, the Tool Rotator, which implements a kind of simple pie menu. (Download)

- Remote Collaboration
Many of our applications allow remote collaboration in which users at different sites simultaneous view and manipulate the same data. This can be done with participants rendered as simple avatars or with rendering of participants using technology such as the Kinect. See Oliver Kreylos' YouTube channel for examples. Also see his Kinect website for how it works.

New Development Efforts

The following efforts are ongoing and available in prototype form at most.

- 3dCompare
3dCompare will be an application that allows interactive comparisons among virtual objects such scanned bones, representations of archeological artifacts, etc.

- PyVrui
PyVrui is a Python wrapper for the Vrui library, using the Py++ code generator. This allows Cave applications to be written in the Python language instead of C++.

- PyBullet
Bullet is a popular 3d physics engine used in many open source and commercial products. We are wrapping it in python and integrating it into PyVrui to use with Vrui visualization capabilities.

extract features
measure

https://www.xsede.org
https://www.xsede.org/overview
http://manual.futuregrid.org/account.html
http://www.opensciencegrid.org/
https://twiki.grid.iu.edu/bin/view/Documentation/Release3/
http://www.prace-project.eu/

Cyber-Physical Systems

Cyber-Physical Systems (CPS) are integrations of computation, networking, and physical processes. Embedded computers and networks monitor and control the physical processes, with feedback loops where physical processes affect computations and vice versa. The economic and societal potential of such systems is vastly greater than what has been realized, and major investments are being made worldwide to develop the technology. The technology builds on the older (but still very young) discipline of embedded systems, computers and software embedded in devices whose principle mission is not computation, such as cars, toys, medical devices, and scientifi c instruments. CPS integrates the dynamics of the physical processes with those of the software and networking, providing abstractions and modeling, design, and analysis techniques for the integrated whole.

Click on icons above for details. Please send comments, suggestions, and links to eal@eecs.berkeley.edu. Alternatively, you can download and run the above model in Ptolemy II. Just point Vergil (the Ptolemy II visual editor) to http://CyberPhysicalSystems.org/CPSConceptMap.xml.

As a discipline, CPS is an engineering discipline, focused on technology, with a strong foundation in mathematical abstractions. The key technical challenge is to conjoin abstractions that have evolved over centuries for modeling physical processes (differential equations, stochastic processes, etc.) with abstractions that have evolved over decades in computer science (algorithms and programs, which provide a "procedural epistemology" [Abelson and Sussman]). The former abstractions focus on dynamics (evolution of system state over time), whereas the latter focus on processes of transforming data. Computer science, as rooted in the Turing-Church notion of computability, abstracts away core physical properties, particularly the passage of time, that are required to include the dynamics of the physical world in the domain of discourse.

Online talks about CPS

- Cyber-Physical Systems:A Rehash or A New Intellectual Challenge?, Invited Talk in the Distinguished Speaker Series, Sponsored by the IEEE Council on Electronic Design Automation (CEDA), Held at the Design Automation Conference (DAC), June 4, 2013, Austin, Texas.

Berkeley CPS Activities

At Berkeley, CHESS is pursuing foundational research in the abstractions and analytical techniques of CPS. Some of the projects addressing this problem:

- The TerraSwarm Research Center
- iCyPhy: The Industrial Cyber-Physical Systems consortium
- The Ptolemy Project
- The Action Webs Project

Some specific research products relevant to CPS:

- Ptolemy II Software Framework
- PTIDES programming model for distributed real-time systems
- Precision Timed (PRET) machines

The TerraSwarm Research Center

The TerraSwarm Research Center, launched on January 15, 2013, is addressing the huge potential (and associated risks) of pervasive integration of smart, networked sensors and actuators into our connected world. The center is funded by the STARnet phase of the Focus Center Research Program (FCRP) administered by the Semiconductor Research Corporation (SRC). Funding comes from the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA) and the SRC industry partners, including Applied Materials, GLOBALFOUNDRIES, IBM, Intel Corporation, Micron Technology, Raytheon, Texas Instruments, and United Technologies.
(See About the Center.)

Cyber-Physical Systems Virtual Organization

Fostering collaboration among CPS professionals in academia, government, and industry

Welcome to the home page of the Cyber-Physical Systems Virtual Organization

Join the CPS-VO

- Publicize events & Make Announcements

- Share documents & Collaborate

- Form & Manage Communities of Interest

- Organize Online Meetings

Upcoming Events

- 04/14/14 - 04/17/14
CPS Week 2014
CPSWeek Conferences The CPSWeek brings together five leading conferences - HSCC, ICCPS, IPSN,... more
- 04/12/14
FESCA @ ETAPS 2014
FESCA @ ETAPS 2014 11th International Workshop on Formal Engineering approaches to Software... more
- 04/13/14 - 04/16/14
SpringSim'14
The Spring Simulation Multi-Conference 2014 (SpringSim'14) brings leading experts in various... more

more ►

Past Events

- 01/28/14
Webinar: New NSF Solicitation: Resilient Interdependent Infrastructure Processes and Systems
The RIPS information webcast has been re-scheduled for Tuesday January 28th at 11am to discuss the... more
- 10/17/13 - 10/18/13
2013 CPS PI Meeting
The fourth annual CPS PI Meeting will be held Thursday and Friday, October 17-18, 2013 at the... more
- 04/06/14
RePP 2014
Reconciling Performance with Predictability Grenoble, France, Sunday April 6th, 2014... more

more ►

In the Spotlight

PROGRAM SOLICITATION NSF 14-542: CYBER-PHYSICAL SYSTEMS [Replaces Doc(s): NSF 13-502]
Cyber-Physical Systems (CPS) Program Solicitation NSF 14-542 Replaces Document(s): NSF 13-502   National Science Foundation Directorate for Computer & Information Science & Engineering      Division of Computer and Network Systems      ...
PROGRAM SOLICITATION NSF 14-542: CYBER-PHYSICAL SYSTEMS [Replaces Doc(s): NSF 13-502]

more ►

CPS Research Projects

- 1st Southwest Workshop on Theory and Applications of Cyber-Physical Systems
- Collaborative Research: Credible Autocoding and Verification of Embedded Software (CrAVES)
- Collaborative Research: GOALI: Methods for Network-Enabled Embedded Monitoring & Control for High-Performance-Buildings
- Infrastructure and Technology Innovations for Medical Device Coordination
- Managing Loosely Coupled Networked Control Systems with External Disturbances
- Science of Integration for Cyber-Physical Systems
- Foundations of Cyber-Physical Networks
- Control Design for Cyber-Physical Systems Using Slow Computing
- CPS: Synergy: Collaborative Research: Cyborg Insect Networks for Exploration and Mapping (CINEMa)
- Collaborative Research: The CyberPhysical Challenges of Transient Stability and Security in Power Grids

more ►

Featured Video

- Cyber-Physical Systems: A Natural Convergence of Engineering and Computer Science

Visions, Goals and Objectives

Join the CPS-VO

- Publicize events & Make Announcements

- Share documents & Collaborate

- Form & Manage Communities of Interest

- Organize Online Meetings

Vision, Goals, and Objectives

Vision

The CPS-VO is envisioned to be a complex, networked, socio-technical organization that includes different institutions from academy, industry, government, and people who work on a wide range of disciplines with different approaches, methods, tools, and experimental platforms to scientific discovery.

Goal

These entities are all interconnected and evolve and are driven by a shared goal, to enhance our knowledge in the science and engineering of CPS.

Objectives

- To facilitate and foster interaction and exchanges among CPS researchers across a broad range of institutions, programs, and disciplines
- To enable sharing of knowledge generated by the projects with the broader engineering and scientific communities
- To enable sharing and integrating experimental tools, platforms and simulators among researchers and stakeholders
- To facilitate and foster collaboration and information exchange between CPS researchers and industry
- To help international collaboration by facilitating the establishment of shared scientific terminologies, technical standards, and testing methods

Who Are We?

The Cyber Physical Systems Virtual Organization (CPS-VO) is a broad community of interest for CPS researchers and developers. The CPS-VO includes institutions from academy and industry, and people who work on a wide range of related disciplines with different approaches, methods, tools and experimental platforms. These entities are all interconnected and evolve driven by a shared goal, to advance our knowledge in the science and engineering of CPS.

- More about the portal
- Vision, Goals, and Objectives
- Management
- CPS-VO Sponsors

The Ptolemy Project

The Ptolemy project studies modeling, simulation, and design of concurrent, real-time, embedded systems. The focus is on assembly of concurrent components. The key underlying principle in the project is the use of well-defined models of computation that govern the interaction between components. A major problem area being addressed is the use of heterogeneous mixtures of models of computation. A software system called Ptolemy II is being constructed in Java. The work is conducted in the Center for Hybrid and Embedded Software Systems (CHESS) in the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences of the University of California at Berkeley. The project is directed by Prof. Edward Lee. The project is named after Claudius Ptolemaeus, the second century Greek astronomer, mathematician, and geographer.

New Book:

- System Design, Modeling, and Simulation using Ptolemy II, Published by ptolemy.org, 2014, available as a free PDF download and low-cost paperback.

Ptolemy II [1][6] is an open-source software framework supporting experimentation with actor-oriented design. Actors are software components that execute concurrently and communicate through messages sent via interconnected ports. A model is a hierarchical interconnection of actors. In Ptolemy II, the semantics of a model is not determined by the framework, but rather by a software component in the model called a director, which implements a model of computation. The Ptolemy Project has developed directors supporting process networks (PN), discrete-events (DE), dataflow (SDF), synchronous/reactive(SR), rendezvous-based models, 3-D visualization, and continuous-time models. Each level of the hierarchy in a model can have its own director, and distinct directors can be composed hierarchically. A major emphasis of the project has been on understanding the heterogeneous combinations of models of computation realized by these directors. Directors can be combined hierarchically with state machines to make modal models [2]. A hierarchical combination of continuous-time models with state machines yields hybrid systems [3]; a combination of synchronous/reactive with state machines yields StateCharts [4] (the Ptolemy II variant is close to SyncCharts).

Ptolemy II has been under development since 1996; it is a successor to Ptolemy Classic, which was developed since 1990. The core of Ptolemy II is a collection of Java classes and packages, layered to provide increasingly specific capabilities. The kernel supports an abstract syntax, a hierarchical structure of entities with ports and interconnections. A graphical editor called Vergil supports visual editing of this abstract syntax. An XML concrete syntax called MoML provides a persistent file format for the models. Various specialized tools have been created from this framework, including HyVisual (for hybrid systems modeling), Kepler (for scientific workflows), VisualSense (for modeling and simulation of wireless networks), Viptos (for sensor network design), and some commercial products. Key parts of the infrastructure include an actor abstract semantics, which enables the interoperability of distinct models of computation with a well-defined semantics; a model of time (specifically, super-dense time, which enables interaction of continuous dynamics and imperative logic); and a sophisticated type system supporting type checking, type inference, and polymorphism. The type system has recently been extended to support user-defined ontologies [5]. Various experiments with synthesis of implementation code and abstractions for verification are included in the project.

VisualSense

 Visual editor and simulator for wireless sensor network systems

Modeling of wireless sensor networks requires sophisticated modeling of communication channels, sensor channels, ad-hoc networking protocols, localization strategies, media access control protocols, energy consumption in sensor nodes, etc. This modeling framework is designed to support a component-based construction of such models. It is intended to enable the research community to share models of disjoint aspects of the sensor nets problem and to build models that include sophisticated elements from several aspects.

VisualSense is shipped as a part of Ptolemy II. Under Windows or Mac OS X, to install VisualSense, install the full version of Ptolemy II.

Overview

Unlike more traditional embedded systems, a full-fledged CPS is typically designed as a network of interacting elements with physical input and output instead of as standalone devices.[1] The notion is closely tied to concepts of robotics and sensor networks. Ongoing advances in science and engineering will improve the link between computational and physical elements, dramatically increasing the adaptability, autonomy, efficiency, functionality, reliability, safety, and usability of cyber-physical systems. This will broaden the potential of cyber-physical systems in several dimensions, including: intervention (e.g., collision avoidance); precision (e.g., robotic surgery and nano-level manufacturing); operation in dangerous or inaccessible environments (e.g., search and rescue, firefighting, and deep-sea exploration); coordination (e.g., air traffic control, war fighting); efficiency (e.g., zero-net energy buildings); and augmentation of human capabilities (e.g., healthcare monitoring and delivery).[2]

The US National Science Foundation (NSF) has identified cyber-physical systems as a key area of research.[3] Starting in late 2006, the NSF and other United States federal agencies sponsored several workshops on cyber-physical systems.[4][5][6][7][8][9][10][11] [12]

Initialization

Weather reconnaissance aircraft, such as this WP-3D Orion, provide data that is then used in numerical weather forecasts.

The atmosphere is a fluid. As such, the idea of numerical weather prediction is to sample the state of the fluid at a given time and use the equations of fluid dynamics and thermodynamics to estimate the state of the fluid at some time in the future. The process of entering observation data into the model to generate initial conditions is called initialization. On land, terrain maps available at resolutions down to 1 kilometer (0.6 mi) globally are used to help model atmospheric circulations within regions of rugged topography, in order to better depict features such as downslope winds, mountain waves and related cloudiness that affects incoming solar radiation.[20] The main inputs from country-based weather services are observations from devices (called radiosondes) in weather balloons that measure various atmospheric parameters and transmits them to a fixed receiver, as well as from weather satellites. The World Meteorological Organization acts to standardize the instrumentation, observing practices and timing of these observations worldwide. Stations either report hourly in METAR reports,[21] or every six hours in SYNOP reports.[22] These observations are irregularly spaced, so they are processed by data assimilation and objective analysis methods, which perform quality control and obtain values at locations usable by the model's mathematical algorithms.[23] Some global models use finite differences, in which the world is represented as discrete points on a regularly spaced grid of latitude and longitude;[24] other models use spectral methods that solve for a range of wavelengths. The data are then used in the model as the starting point for a forecast.[25]

A variety of methods are used to gather observational data for use in numerical models. Sites launch radiosondes in weather balloons which rise through the troposphere and well into the stratosphere.[26] Information from weather satellites is used where traditional data sources are not available. Commerce provides pilot reports along aircraft routes[27] and ship reports along shipping routes.[28] Research projects use reconnaissance aircraft to fly in and around weather systems of interest, such as tropical cyclones.[29][30] Reconnaissance aircraft are also flown over the open oceans during the cold season into systems which cause significant uncertainty in forecast guidance, or are expected to be of high impact from three to seven days into the future over the downstream continent.[31] Sea ice began to be initialized in forecast models in 1971.[32] Efforts to involve sea surface temperature in model initialization began in 1972 due to its role in modulating weather in higher latitudes of the Pacific.[33]

Computation

Main article: Atmospheric model

A prognostic chart of the 96-hour forecast of 850 mbar geopotential height and temperature from the Global Forecast System

An atmospheric model is a computer program that produces meteorological information for future times at given locations and altitudes. Within any modern model is a set of equations, known as the primitive equations, used to predict the future state of the atmosphere.[34] These equations—along with the ideal gas law—are used to evolve the density, pressure, and potential temperature scalar fields and the air velocity (wind) vector field of the atmosphere through time. Additional transport equations for pollutants and other aerosols are included in some primitive-equation high-resolution models as well.[35] The equations used are nonlinear partial differential equations which are impossible to solve exactly through analytical methods,[36] with the exception of a few idealized cases.[37] Therefore, numerical methods obtain approximate solutions. Different models use different solution methods: some global models and almost all regional models use finite difference methods for all three spatial dimensions, while other global models and a few regional models use spectral methods for the horizontal dimensions and finite-difference methods in the vertical.[36]

These equations are initialized from the analysis data and rates of change are determined. These rates of change predict the state of the atmosphere a short time into the future; the time increment for this prediction is called a time step. The equations are then applied to this new atmospheric state to find new rates of change, and these new rates of change predict the atmosphere at a yet further time step into the future. This time stepping is repeated until the solution reaches the desired forecast time. The length of the time step chosen within the model is related to the distance between the points on the computational grid, and is chosen to maintain numerical stability.[38] Time steps for global models are on the order of tens of minutes,[39] while time steps for regional models are between one and four minutes.[40] The global models are run at varying times into the future. The UKMET Unified Model is run six days into the future,[41] while the European Centre for Medium-Range Weather Forecasts' Integrated Forecast System and Environment Canada's Global Environmental Multiscale Model both run out to ten days into the future,[42] and the Global Forecast System model run by the Environmental Modeling Center is run sixteen days into the future.[43] The visual output produced by a model solution is known as a prognostic chart, or prog.[44]

Parameterization

Main article: Parametrization (climate)

Some meteorological processes are too small-scale or too complex to be explicitly included in numerical weather prediction models. Parameterization is a procedure for representing these processes by relating them to variables on the scales that the model resolves. For example, the gridboxes in weather and climate models have sides that are between 5 kilometers (3 mi) and 300 kilometers (200 mi) in length. A typical cumulus cloud has a scale of less than 1 kilometer (0.6 mi), and would require a grid even finer than this to be represented physically by the equations of fluid motion. Therefore the processes that such clouds represent are parameterized, by processes of various sophistication. In the earliest models, if a column of air in a model gridbox was conditionally unstable (essentially, the bottom was warmer and moister than the top) and the water vapor content at any point within the column became saturated then it would be overturned (the warm, moist air would begin rising), and the air in that vertical column mixed. More sophisticated schemes recognize that only some portions of the box might convect and that entrainment and other processes occur. Weather models that have gridboxes with sides between 5 and 25 kilometers (3 and 16 mi) can explicitly represent convective clouds, although they need to parameterize cloud microphysics which occur at a smaller scale.[45] The formation of large-scale (stratus-type) clouds is more physically based; they form when the relative humidity reaches some prescribed value. Sub-grid scale processes need to be taken into account. Rather than assuming that clouds form at 100% relative humidity, the cloud fraction can be related a critical value of relative humidity less than 100%,[46] reflecting the sub grid scale variation that occurs in the real world.

The amount of solar radiation reaching the ground, as well as the formation of cloud droplets occur on the molecular scale, and so they must be parameterized before they can be included in the model. Atmospheric drag produced by mountains must also be parameterized, as the limitations in the resolution of elevation contours produce significant underestimates of the drag.[47] This method of parameterization is also done for the surface flux of energy between the ocean and the atmosphere, in order to determine realistic sea surface temperatures and type of sea ice found near the ocean's surface.[48] Sun angle as well as the impact of multiple cloud layers is taken into account.[49] Soil type, vegetation type, and soil moisture all determine how much radiation goes into warming and how much moisture is drawn up into the adjacent atmosphere, and thus it is important to parameterize their contribution to these processes.[50] Within air quality models, parameterizations take into account atmospheric emissions from multiple relatively tiny sources (e.g. roads, fields, factories) within specific grid boxes.[51]

Domains

A cross-section of the atmosphere over terrain with a sigma-coordinate representation shown. Mesoscale models divide the atmosphere vertically using representations similar to the one shown here.

The horizontal domain of a model is either global, covering the entire Earth, or regional, covering only part of the Earth. Regional models (also known as limited-area models, or LAMs) allow for the use of finer grid spacing than global models because the available computational resources are focused on a specific area instead of being spread over the globe. This allows regional models to resolve explicitly smaller-scale meteorological phenomena that cannot be represented on the coarser grid of a global model. Regional models use a global model to specify conditions at the edge of their domain in order to allow systems from outside the regional model domain to move into its area. Uncertainty and errors within regional models are introduced by the global model used for the boundary conditions of the edge of the regional model, as well as errors attributable to the regional model itself.[52]

The vertical coordinate is handled in various ways. Lewis Fry Richardson's 1922 model used geometric height (

) as the vertical coordinate. Later models substituted the geometric

coordinate with a pressure coordinate system, in which the geopotential heights of constant-pressure surfaces become dependent variables, greatly simplifying the primitive equations.[53] This correlation between coordinate systems can be made since pressure decreases with height through the Earth's atmosphere.[54] The first model used for operational forecasts, the single-layer barotropic model, used a single pressure coordinate at the 500-millibar (about 5,500 m (18,000 ft)) level,[3] and thus was essentially two-dimensional. High-resolution models—also called mesoscale models—such as the Weather Research and Forecasting model tend to use normalized pressure coordinates referred to as sigma coordinates.[55] This coordinate system receives its name from the independent variable

used to scale atmospheric pressures with respect to the pressure at the surface, and in some cases also with the pressure at the top of the domain.[56]

Model output statistics

Main article: Model output statistics

Because forecast models based upon the equations for atmospheric dynamics do not perfectly determine weather conditions, statistical methods have been developed to attempt to correct the forecasts. Statistical models were created based upon the three-dimensional fields produced by numerical weather models, surface observations and the climatological conditions for specific locations. These statistical models are collectively referred to as model output statistics (MOS),[57] and were developed by the National Weather Service for their suite of weather forecasting models in the late 1960s.[15][58]

Model output statistics differ from the perfect prog technique, which assumes that the output of numerical weather prediction guidance is perfect.[59] MOS can correct for local effects that cannot be resolved by the model due to insufficient grid resolution, as well as model biases. Because MOS is run after its respective global or regional model, its production is known as post-processing. Forecast parameters within MOS include maximum and minimum temperatures, percentage chance of rain within a several hour period, precipitation amount expected, chance that the precipitation will be frozen in nature, chance for thunderstorms, cloudiness, and surface winds.[60]

Ensembles

Main article: Ensemble forecasting

Top: Weather Research and Forecasting model (WRF) simulation of Hurricane Rita (2005) tracks. Bottom: The spread of NHC multi-model ensemble forecast.

In 1963, Edward Lorenz discovered the chaotic nature of the fluid dynamics equations involved in weather forecasting.[61] Extremely small errors in temperature, winds, or other initial inputs given to numerical models will amplify and double every five days,[61] making it impossible for long-range forecasts—those made more than two weeks in advance—to predict the state of the atmosphere with any degree of forecast skill. Furthermore, existing observation networks have poor coverage in some regions (for example, over large bodies of water such as the Pacific Ocean), which introduces uncertainty into the true initial state of the atmosphere. While a set of equations, known as the Liouville equations, exists to determine the initial uncertainty in the model initialization, the equations are too complex to run in real-time, even with the use of supercomputers.[62] These uncertainties limit forecast model accuracy to about five or six days into the future.[63][64]

Edward Epstein recognized in 1969 that the atmosphere could not be completely described with a single forecast run due to inherent uncertainty, and proposed using an ensemble of stochastic Monte Carlo simulations to produce means and variances for the state of the atmosphere.[65] Although this early example of an ensemble showed skill, in 1974 Cecil Leith showed that they produced adequate forecasts only when the ensemble probability distribution was a representative sample of the probability distribution in the atmosphere.[66]

Since the 1990s, ensemble forecasts have been used operationally (as routine forecasts) to account for the stochastic nature of weather processes – that is, to resolve their inherent uncertainty. This method involves analyzing multiple forecasts created with an individual forecast model by using different physical parametrizations or varying initial conditions.[62] Starting in 1992 with ensemble forecasts prepared by the European Centre for Medium-Range Weather Forecasts (ECMWF) and the National Centers for Environmental Prediction, model ensemble forecasts have been used to help define the forecast uncertainty and to extend the window in which numerical weather forecasting is viable farther into the future than otherwise possible.[17][18][19] The ECMWF model, the Ensemble Prediction System,[18] uses singular vectors to simulate the initial probability density, while the NCEP ensemble, the Global Ensemble Forecasting System, uses a technique known as vector breeding.[17][19] The UK Met Office runs global and regional ensemble forecasts where perturbations to initial conditions are produced using a Kalman filter.[67] There are 24 ensemble members in the Met Office Global and Regional Ensemble Prediction System (MOGREPS).

In a single model-based approach, the ensemble forecast is usually evaluated in terms of an average of the individual forecasts concerning one forecast variable, as well as the degree of agreement between various forecasts within the ensemble system, as represented by their overall spread. Ensemble spread is diagnosed through tools such as spaghetti diagrams, which show the dispersion of one quantity on prognostic charts for specific time steps in the future. Another tool where ensemble spread is used is a meteogram, which shows the dispersion in the forecast of one quantity for one specific location. It is common for the ensemble spread to be too small to include the weather that actually occurs, which can lead to forecasters misdiagnosing model uncertainty;[68] this problem becomes particularly severe for forecasts of the weather about ten days in advance.[69] When ensemble spread is small and the forecast solutions are consistent within multiple model runs, forecasters perceive more confidence in the ensemble mean, and the forecast in general.[68] Despite this perception, a spread-skill relationship is often weak or not found, as spread-error correlations are normally less than 0.6, and only under special circumstances range between 0.6–0.7.[70] The relationship between ensemble spread and forecast skill varies substantially depending on such factors as the forecast model and the region for which the forecast is made.

In the same way that many forecasts from a single model can be used to form an ensemble, multiple models may also be combined to produce an ensemble forecast. This approach is called multi-model ensemble forecasting, and it has been shown to improve forecasts when compared to a single model-based approach.[71] Models within a multi-model ensemble can be adjusted for their various biases, which is a process known as superensemble forecasting. This type of forecast significantly reduces errors in model output.[72]

Applications

Air quality modeling

See also: Atmospheric dispersion modeling

Air quality forecasting attempts to predict when the concentrations of pollutants will attain levels that are hazardous to public health. The concentration of pollutants in the atmosphere is determined by their transport, or mean velocity of movement through the atmosphere, their diffusion, chemical transformation, and ground deposition.[73] In addition to pollutant source and terrain information, these models require data about the state of the fluid flow in the atmosphere to determine its transport and diffusion.[74] Meteorological conditions such as thermal inversions can prevent surface air from rising, trapping pollutants near the surface,[75] which makes accurate forecasts of such events crucial for air quality modeling. Urban air quality models require a very fine computational mesh, requiring the use of high-resolution mesoscale weather models; in spite of this, the quality of numerical weather guidance is the main uncertainty in air quality forecasts.[74]

Climate modeling

See also: Global climate model

A General Circulation Model (GCM) is a mathematical model that can be used in computer simulations of the general circulation of a planetary atmosphere or ocean. An atmospheric general circulation model (AGCM) is essentially the same as a global numerical weather prediction model, and some (such as the one used in the UK Unified Model) can be configured for both short-term weather forecasts and longer-term climate predictions. Along with sea ice and land-surface components, AGCMs and oceanic GCMs (OGCM) are key components of global climate models, and are widely applied for understanding the climate and projecting climate change. For example, they can be used to simulate the El Niño-Southern Oscillation and study its forcings on global climate and the Asian monsoon circulation. For aspects of climate change, a range of man-made chemical emission scenarios can be fed into the climate models to see how an enhanced greenhouse effect would modify the Earth's climate.[76] Versions designed for climate applications with time scales of decades to centuries were originally created in 1969 by Syukuro Manabe and Kirk Bryan at the Geophysical Fluid Dynamics Laboratory in Princeton, New Jersey.[77] When run for multiple decades, the models use a low resolution, which leaves smaller-scale interactions unresolved.[78]

Ocean surface modeling

NOAA Wavewatch III 120-hour wind and wave forecast for the North Atlantic
Main articles: Marine weather forecasting, Ocean dynamics, and Wind wave model

The transfer of energy between the wind blowing over the surface of an ocean and the ocean's upper layer is an important element in wave dynamics.[79] The spectral wave transport equation is used to describe the change in wave spectrum over changing topography. It simulates wave generation, wave movement (propagation within a fluid), wave shoaling, refraction, energy transfer between waves, and wave dissipation.[80] Since surface winds are the primary forcing mechanism in the spectral wave transport equation, ocean wave models use information produced by numerical weather prediction models as inputs to determine how much energy is transferred from the atmosphere into the layer at the surface of the ocean. Along with dissipation of energy through whitecaps and resonance between waves, surface winds from numerical weather models allow for more accurate predictions of the state of the sea surface.[81]

Tropical cyclone forecasting

See also: Tropical cyclone forecast model

Tropical cyclone forecasting also relies on data provided by numerical weather models. Three main classes of tropical cyclone guidance models exist: Statistical models are based on an analysis of storm behavior using climatology, and correlate a storm's position and date to produce a forecast that is not based on the physics of the atmosphere at the time. Dynamical models are numerical models that solve the governing equations of fluid flow in the atmosphere; they are based on the same principles as other limited-area numerical weather prediction models but may include special computational techniques such as refined spatial domains that move along with the cyclone. Models that use elements of both approaches are called statistical-dynamical models.[82]

In 1978, the first hurricane-tracking model based on atmospheric dynamics—the movable fine-mesh (MFM) model—began operating.[12] Within the field of tropical cyclone track forecasting, despite the ever-improving dynamical model guidance which occurred with increased computational power, it was not until the 1980s when numerical weather prediction showed skill, and until the 1990s when it consistently outperformed statistical or simple dynamical models.[83] Predictions of the intensity of a tropical cyclone based on numerical weather prediction continue to be a challenge, since statistical methods continue to show higher skill over dynamical guidance.[84]

Wildfire modeling

See also: Wildfire modeling

A simple wildfire propagation model

On a molecular scale, there are two main competing reaction processes involved in the degradation of cellulose, or wood fuels, in wildfires. When there is a low amount of moisture in a cellulose fiber, volatilization of the fuel occurs; this process will generate intermediate gaseous products that will ultimately be the source of combustion. When moisture is present—or when enough heat is being carried away from the fiber, charring occurs. The chemical kinetics of both reactions indicate that there is a point at which the level of moisture is low enough—and/or heating rates high enough—for combustion processes become self-sufficient. Consequently, changes in wind speed, direction, moisture, temperature, or lapse rate at different levels of the atmosphere can have a significant impact on the behavior and growth of a wildfire. Since the wildfire acts as a heat source to the atmospheric flow, the wildfire can modify local advection patterns, introducing a feedback loop between the fire and the atmosphere.[85]

A simplified two-dimensional model for the spread of wildfires that used convection to represent the effects of wind and terrain, as well as radiative heat transfer as the dominant method of heat transport led to reaction-diffusion systems of partial differential equations.[86][87] More complex models join numerical weather models or computational fluid dynamics models with a wildfire component which allow the feedback effects between the fire and the atmosphere to be estimated.[85] The additional complexity in the latter class of models translates to a corresponding increase in their computer power requirements. In fact, a full three-dimensional treatment of combustion via direct numerical simulation at scales relevant for atmospheric modeling is not currently practical because of the excessive computational cost such a simulation would require. Numerical weather models have limited forecast skill at spatial resolutions under 1 kilometer (0.6 mi), forcing complex wildfire models to parameterize the fire in order to calculate how the winds will be modified locally by the wildfire, and to use those modified winds to determine the rate at which the fire will spread locally.[88][89][90] Although models such as Los Alamos' FIRETEC solve for the concentrations of fuel and oxygen, the computational grid cannot be fine enough to resolve the combustion reaction, so approximations must be made for the temperature distribution within each grid cell, as well as for the combustion reaction rates themselves.

See also

- Atmospheric physics
- Atmospheric thermodynamics
- Tropical cyclone forecast model
- Types of atmospheric models

References

- Lynch, Peter (March 2008). "The origins of computer weather prediction and climate modeling". Journal of Computational Physics (University of Miami) 227 (7): 3431–44. Bibcode:2008JCoPh.227.3431L. doi:10.1016/j.jcp.2007.02.034. Retrieved 2010-12-23.
- Lynch, Peter (2006). "Weather Prediction by Numerical Process". The Emergence of Numerical Weather Prediction. Cambridge University Press. pp. 1–27. ISBN 978-0-521-85729-1.
- Charney, Jule; Fjørtoft, Ragnar; von Neumann, John (November 1950). "Numerical Integration of the Barotropic Vorticity Equation". Tellus 2 (4): 237. Bibcode:1950Tell....2..237C. doi:10.1111/j.2153-3490.1950.tb00336.x.
- Cox, John D. (2002). Storm Watchers. John Wiley & Sons, Inc. p. 208. ISBN 0-471-38108-X.
- Harper, Kristine; Uccellini, Louis W.; Kalnay, Eugenia; Carey, Kenneth; Morone, Lauren (May 2007). "2007: 50th Anniversary of Operational Numerical Weather Prediction". Bulletin of the American Meteorological Society 88 (5): 639–650. Bibcode:2007BAMS...88..639H. doi:10.1175/BAMS-88-5-639.
- American Institute of Physics (2008-03-25). "Atmospheric General Circulation Modeling". Archived from the original on 2008-03-25. Retrieved 2008-01-13.
- Phillips, Norman A. (April 1956). "The general circulation of the atmosphere: a numerical experiment". Quarterly Journal of the Royal Meteorological Society 82 (352): 123–154. Bibcode:1956QJRMS..82..123P. doi:10.1002/qj.49708235202.
- Cox, John D. (2002). Storm Watchers. John Wiley & Sons, Inc. p. 210. ISBN 0-471-38108-X.
- Lynch, Peter (2006). "The ENIAC Integrations". The Emergence of Numerical Weather Prediction. Cambridge University Press. pp. 206–208. ISBN 978-0-521-85729-1.
- National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (2008-05-22). "The First Climate Model". Retrieved 2011-01-08.
- Leslie, L.M.; Dietachmeyer, G.S. (December 1992). "Real-time limited area numerical weather prediction in Australia: a historical perspective". Australian Meteorological Magazine (Bureau of Meteorology) 41 (SP): 61–77. Retrieved 2011-01-03.
- Shuman, Frederick G. (September 1989). "History of Numerical Weather Prediction at the National Meteorological Center". Weather and Forecasting 4 (3): 286–296. Bibcode:1989WtFor...4..286S. doi:10.1175/1520-0434(1989)004<0286:HONWPA>2.0.CO;2. ISSN 1520-0434.
- Steyn, D. G. (1991). Air pollution modeling and its application VIII, Volume 8. Birkhäuser. pp. 241–242. ISBN 978-0-306-43828-8.
- Xue, Yongkang; Fennessey, Michael J. (1996-03-20). "Impact of vegetation properties on U. S. summer weather prediction". Journal of Geophysical Research (American Geophysical Union) 101 (D3): 7419. Bibcode:1996JGR...101.7419X. doi:10.1029/95JD02169. Retrieved 2011-01-06.
- Hughes, Harry (1976). Model output statistics forecast guidance. United States Air Force Environmental Technical Applications Center. pp. 1–16.
- Best, D. L.; Pryor, S. P. (1983). Air Weather Service Model Output Statistics Systems. Air Force Global Weather Central. pp. 1–90.
- Toth, Zoltan; Kalnay, Eugenia (December 1997). "Ensemble Forecasting at NCEP and the Breeding Method". Monthly Weather Review 125 (12): 3297–3319. Bibcode:1997MWRv..125.3297T. doi:10.1175/1520-0493(1997)125<3297:EFANAT>2.0.CO;2. ISSN 1520-0493.
- "The Ensemble Prediction System (EPS)". ECMWF. Archived from the original on 2010-10-30. Retrieved 2011-01-05.
- Molteni, F.; Buizza, R.; Palmer, T.N.; Petroliagis, T. (January 1996). "The ECMWF Ensemble Prediction System: Methodology and validation". Quarterly Journal of the Royal Meteorological Society 122 (529): 73–119. Bibcode:1996QJRMS.122...73M. doi:10.1002/qj.49712252905.
- Stensrud, David J. (2007). Parameterization schemes: keys to understanding numerical weather prediction models. Cambridge University Press. p. 56. ISBN 978-0-521-86540-1. Retrieved 2011-02-15.
- National Climatic Data Center (2008-08-20). "Key to METAR Surface Weather Observations". National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. Retrieved 2011-02-11.
- "SYNOP Data Format (FM-12): Surface Synoptic Observations". UNISYS. 2008-05-25. Archived from the original on 2007-12-30.
- Krishnamurti, T. N. (January 1995). "Numerical Weather Prediction". Annual Review of Fluid Mechanics 27 (1): 195–225. Bibcode:1995AnRFM..27..195K. doi:10.1146/annurev.fl.27.010195.001211.
- Kwon, J. H. (2007). Parallel computational fluid dynamics: parallel computings and its applications : proceedings of the Parallel CFD 2006 Conference, Busan city, Korea (May 15–18, 2006). Elsevier. p. 224. ISBN 978-0-444-53035-6. Retrieved 2011-01-06.
- "The WRF Variational Data Assimilation System (WRF-Var)". University Corporation for Atmospheric Research. 2007-08-14. Archived from the original on 2007-08-14.
- Gaffen, Dian J. (2007-06-07). "Radiosonde Observations and Their Use in SPARC-Related Investigations". Archived from the original on 2007-06-07.
- Ballish, Bradley A.; V. Krishna Kumar (November 2008). "Systematic Differences in Aircraft and Radiosonde Temperatures". Bulletin of the American Meteorological Society 89 (11): 1689–1708. Bibcode:2008BAMS...89.1689B. doi:10.1175/2008BAMS2332.1. Retrieved 2011-02-16.
- National Data Buoy Center (2009-01-28). "The WMO Voluntary Observing Ships (VOS) Scheme". National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. Retrieved 2011-02-15.
- 403rd Wing (2011). "The Hurricane Hunters". 53rd Weather Reconnaissance Squadron. Retrieved 2006-03-30.
- Lee, Christopher (2007-10-08). "Drone, Sensors May Open Path Into Eye of Storm". The Washington Post. Retrieved 2008-02-22.
- National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (2010-11-12). "NOAA Dispatches High-Tech Research Plane to Improve Winter Storm Forecasts". Retrieved 2010-12-22.
- Stensrud, David J. (2007). Parameterization schemes: keys to understanding numerical weather prediction models. Cambridge University Press. p. 137. ISBN 978-0-521-86540-1. Retrieved 2011-01-08.
- Houghton, John Theodore (1985). The Global Climate. Cambridge University Press archive. pp. 49–50. ISBN 978-0-521-31256-1. Retrieved 2011-01-08.
- Pielke, Roger A. (2002). Mesoscale Meteorological Modeling. Academic Press. pp. 48–49. ISBN 0-12-554766-8.
- Pielke, Roger A. (2002). Mesoscale Meteorological Modeling. Academic Press. pp. 18–19. ISBN 0-12-554766-8.
- Strikwerda, John C. (2004). Finite difference schemes and partial differential equations. SIAM. pp. 165–170. ISBN 978-0-89871-567-5. Retrieved 2010-12-31.
- Pielke, Roger A. (2002). Mesoscale Meteorological Modeling. Academic Press. p. 65. ISBN 0-12-554766-8.
- Pielke, Roger A. (2002). Mesoscale Meteorological Modeling. Academic Press. pp. 285–287. ISBN 0-12-554766-8.
- Sunderam, V. S.; van Albada, G. Dick; Peter, M. A.; Sloot, J. J. Dongarra (2005). Computational Science – ICCS 2005: 5th International Conference, Atlanta, GA, USA, May 22–25, 2005, Proceedings, Part 1. Springer. p. 132. ISBN 978-3-540-26032-5. Retrieved 2011-01-02.
- Zwieflhofer, Walter; Kreitz, Norbert; European Centre for Medium Range Weather Forecasts (2001). Developments in teracomputing: proceedings of the ninth ECMWF Workshop on the Use of High Performance Computing in Meteorology. World Scientific. p. 276. ISBN 978-981-02-4761-4. Retrieved 2011-01-02.
- Chan, Johnny C. L. and Jeffrey D. Kepert (2010). Global Perspectives on Tropical Cyclones: From Science to Mitigation. World Scientific. pp. 295–296. ISBN 978-981-4293-47-1. Retrieved 2011-02-24.
- Holton, James R. (2004). An introduction to dynamic meteorology, Volume 1. Academic Press. p. 480. ISBN 978-0-12-354015-7. Retrieved 2011-02-24.
- Brown, Molly E. (2008). Famine early warning systems and remote sensing data. Springer. p. 121. ISBN 978-3-540-75367-4. Retrieved 2011-02-24.
- Ahrens, C. Donald (2008). Essentials of meteorology: an invitation to the atmosphere. Cengage Learning. p. 244. ISBN 978-0-495-11558-8. Retrieved 2011-02-11.
- Narita, Masami and Shiro Ohmori (2007-08-06). "3.7 Improving Precipitation Forecasts by the Operational Nonhydrostatic Mesoscale Model with the Kain-Fritsch Convective Parameterization and Cloud Microphysics". 12th Conference on Mesoscale Processes (American Meteorological Society). Retrieved 2011-02-15.
- Frierson, Dargan (2000-09-14). "The Diagnostic Cloud Parameterization Scheme". University of Washington. pp. 4–5. Retrieved 2011-02-15.
- Stensrud, David J. (2007). Parameterization schemes: keys to understanding numerical weather prediction models. Cambridge University Press. p. 6. ISBN 978-0-521-86540-1. Retrieved 2011-02-15.
- McGuffie, K. and A. Henderson-Sellers (2005). A climate modelling primer. John Wiley and Sons. p. 188. ISBN 978-0-470-85751-9.
- Melʹnikova, Irina N. and Alexander V. Vasilyev (2005). Short-wave solar radiation in the earth's atmosphere: calculation, oberservation, interpretation. Springer. pp. 226–228. ISBN 978-3-540-21452-6.
- Stensrud, David J. (2007). Parameterization schemes: keys to understanding numerical weather prediction models. Cambridge University Press. pp. 12–14. ISBN 978-0-521-86540-1. Retrieved 2011-02-15.
- Baklanov, Alexander, Sue Grimmond, Alexander Mahura (2009). Meteorological and Air Quality Models for Urban Areas. Springer. pp. 11–12. ISBN 978-3-642-00297-7. Retrieved 2011-02-24.
- Warner, Thomas Tomkins (2010). Numerical Weather and Climate Prediction. Cambridge University Press. p. 259. ISBN 978-0-521-51389-0. Retrieved 2011-02-11.
- Lynch, Peter (2006). "The Fundamental Equations". The Emergence of Numerical Weather Prediction. Cambridge University Press. pp. 45–46. ISBN 978-0-521-85729-1.
- Ahrens, C. Donald (2008). Essentials of meteorology: an invitation to the atmosphere. Cengage Learning. p. 10. ISBN 978-0-495-11558-8. Retrieved 2011-02-11.
- Janjic, Zavisa; Gall, Robert; Pyle, Matthew E. (February 2010). "Scientific Documentation for the NMM Solver". National Center for Atmospheric Research. pp. 12–13. Retrieved 2011-01-03.
- Pielke, Roger A. (2002). Mesoscale Meteorological Modeling. Academic Press. pp. 131–132. ISBN 0-12-554766-8.
- Baum, Marsha L. (2007). When nature strikes: weather disasters and the law. Greenwood Publishing Group. p. 189. ISBN 978-0-275-22129-4. Retrieved 2011-02-11.
- Glahn, Harry R.; Lowry, Dale A. (December 1972). "The Use of Model Output Statistics (MOS) in Objective Weather Forecasting". Journal of Applied Meteorology 11 (8): 1203–1211. Bibcode:1972JApMe..11.1203G. doi:10.1175/1520-0450(1972)011<1203:TUOMOS>2.0.CO;2. ISSN 1520-0450.
- Gultepe, Ismail (2007). Fog and boundary layer clouds: fog visibility and forecasting. Springer. p. 1144. ISBN 978-3-7643-8418-0. Retrieved 2011-02-11.
- Barry, Roger Graham; Chorley, Richard J. (2003). Atmosphere, weather, and climate. Psychology Press. p. 172. ISBN 978-0-415-27171-4. Retrieved 2011-02-11.
- Cox, John D. (2002). Storm Watchers. John Wiley & Sons, Inc. pp. 222–224. ISBN 0-471-38108-X.
- Manousos, Peter (2006-07-19). "Ensemble Prediction Systems". Hydrometeorological Prediction Center. Retrieved 2010-12-31.
- Weickmann, Klaus; Jeff Whitaker; Andres Roubicek; Catherine Smith (2001-12-01). "The Use of Ensemble Forecasts to Produce Improved Medium Range (3–15 days) Weather Forecasts.". Climate Diagnostics Center. Retrieved 2007-02-16.
- Chakraborty, Arindam (October 2010). "The Skill of ECMWF Medium-Range Forecasts during the Year of Tropical Convection 2008". Monthly Weather Review 138 (10): 3787–3805. Bibcode:2010MWRv..138.3787C. doi:10.1175/2010MWR3217.1.
- Epstein, E.S. (December 1969). "Stochastic dynamic prediction". Tellus A 21 (6): 739–759. Bibcode:1969Tell...21..739E. doi:10.1111/j.2153-3490.1969.tb00483.x.
- Leith, C.E. (June 1974). "Theoretical Skill of Monte Carlo Forecasts". Monthly Weather Review 102 (6): 409–418. Bibcode:1974MWRv..102..409L. doi:10.1175/1520-0493(1974)102<0409:TSOMCF>2.0.CO;2. ISSN 1520-0493.
- "MOGREPS". Met Office. Retrieved 2012-11-01.
- Warner, Thomas Tomkins (2010). Numerical Weather and Climate Prediction. Cambridge University Press. pp. 266–275. ISBN 978-0-521-51389-0. Retrieved 2011-02-11.
- Palmer, T.N.; G.J. Shutts, R. Hagedorn, F.J. Doblas-Reyes, T. Jung, and M. Leutbecher (May 2005). "Representing Model Uncertainty in Weather and Climate Prediction". Annual Review of Earth and Planetary Sciences 33: 163–193. Bibcode:2005AREPS..33..163P. doi:10.1146/annurev.earth.33.092203.122552. Retrieved 2011-02-09.
- Grimit, Eric P.; Mass, Clifford F. (October 2004). "Redefining the Ensemble Spread-Skill Relationship from a Probabilistic Perspective". University of Washington. Retrieved 2010-01-02.
- Zhou, Binbin; Du, Jun (February 2010). "Fog Prediction From a Multimodel Mesoscale Ensemble Prediction System". Weather and Forecasting (American Meteorological Society) 25: 303. Bibcode:2010WtFor..25..303Z. doi:10.1175/2009WAF2222289.1. Retrieved 2011-01-02.
- Cane, D.; Milelli, M. (2010-02-12). "Multimodel SuperEnsemble technique for quantitative precipitation forecasts in Piemonte region". Natural Hazards and Earth System Sciences 10 (2): 265. Bibcode:2010NHESS..10..265C. doi:10.5194/nhess-10-265-2010. Retrieved 2011-01-02.
- Daly, Aaron and Paolo Zannetti (2007). Ambient Air Pollution. The Arab School for Science and Technology and The EnviroComp Institute. p. 16. Retrieved 2011-02-24.
- Baklanov, Alexander; Rasmussen, Alix; Fay, Barbara; Berge, Erik; Finardi, Sandro (September 2002). "Potential and Shortcomings of Numerical Weather Prediction Models in Providing Meteorological Data for Urban Air Pollution Forecasting". Water, Air and Soil Pollution: Focus 2 (5): 43–60. doi:10.1023/A:1021394126149.
- Marshall, John; Plumb, R. Alan (2008). Atmosphere, ocean, and climate dynamics: an introductory text. Amsterdam: Elsevier Academic Press. pp. 44–46. ISBN 978-0-12-558691-7.
- Australian Bureau of Statistics (2005). Year book, Australia, Issue 87. p. 40. Retrieved 2011-02-18.
- National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration 200th Celebration (2008-05-22). "The First Climate Model". National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. Retrieved 2010-04-20.
- Bridgman, Howard A., John E. Oliver, Michael H. Glantz (2006). The global climate system: patterns, processes, and teleconnections. Cambridge University Press. pp. 284–289. ISBN 978-0-521-82642-6. Retrieved 2011-02-18.
- Chalikov, D. V. (August 1978). "The numerical simulation of wind-wave interaction". Journal of Fluid Mechanics 87 (3): 561–82. Bibcode:1978JFM....87..561C. doi:10.1017/S0022112078001767.
- Lin, Pengzhi (2008). Numerical modeling of water waves. Psychology Press. p. 270. ISBN 978-0-415-41578-1.
- Bender, Leslie C. (January 1996). "Modification of the Physics and Numerics in a Third-Generation Ocean Wave Model". Journal of Atmospheric and Oceanic Technology 13 (3): 726. Bibcode:1996JAtOT..13..726B. doi:10.1175/1520-0426(1996)013<0726:MOTPAN>2.0.CO;2. ISSN 1520-0426.
- National Hurricane Center (July 2009). "Technical Summary of the National Hurricane Center Track and Intensity Models". National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. Retrieved 2011-02-19.
- Franklin, James (2010-04-20). "National Hurricane Center Forecast Verification". National Hurricane Center. Retrieved 2011-01-02.
- Rappaport, Edward N.; Franklin, James L.; Avila, Lixion A.; Baig, Stephen R.; Beven II, John L.; Blake, Eric S.; Burr, Christopher A.; Jiing, Jiann-Gwo; Juckins, Christopher A.; Knabb, Richard D.; Landsea, Christopher W.; Mainelli, Michelle; Mayfield, Max; McAdie, Colin J.; Pasch, Richard J.; Sisko, Christopher; Stewart, Stacy R.; Tribble, Ahsha N. (April 2009). "Advances and Challenges at the National Hurricane Center". Weather and Forecasting 24 (2): 395–419. Bibcode:2009WtFor..24..395R. doi:10.1175/2008WAF2222128.1.
- Sullivan, Andrew L. (June 2009). "Wildland surface fire spread modelling, 1990–2007. 1: Physical and quasi-physical models". International Journal of Wildland Fire 18 (4): 349. arXiv:0706.3074. doi:10.1071/WF06143.
- Asensio, M. I. and L. Ferragut (2002). "On a wildland fire model with radiation". International Journal for Numerical Methods in Engineering 54: 137–157. Bibcode:2002IJNME..54..137A. doi:10.1002/nme.420.
- Mandel, Jan, Lynn S. Bennethum, Jonathan D. Beezley, Janice L. Coen, Craig C. Douglas, Minjeong Kim, and Anthony Vodacek (2008). "A wildfire model with data assimilation". Mathematics and Computers in Simulation 79 (3): 584–606. arXiv:0709.0086. Bibcode:2007arXiv0709.0086M. doi:10.1016/j.matcom.2008.03.015.
- Clark, T. L., M. A. Jenkins, J. Coen, and David Packham (1996). "A coupled atmospheric-fire model: Convective Froude number and dynamic fingering". International Journal of Wildland Fire 6 (4): 177–190. doi:10.1071/WF9960177.
- Clark, Terry L., Marry Ann Jenkins, Janice Coen, and David Packham (1996). "A coupled atmospheric-fire model: Convective feedback on fire line dynamics". Journal of Applied Meteorology 35 (6): 875–901. Bibcode:1996JApMe..35..875C. doi:10.1175/1520-0450(1996)035<0875:ACAMCF>2.0.CO;2. ISSN 1520-0450.
- Rothermel, Richard C. (January 1972). "A mathematical model for predicting fire spread in wildland fires". United States Forest Service. Retrieved 2011-02-28.

Further reading

- Beniston, Martin (1998). From Turbulence to Climate: Numerical Investigations of the Atmosphere with a Hierarchy of Models. Berlin: Springer. ISBN 3-540-63495-9.
- Kalnay, Eugenia (2003). Atmospheric Modeling, Data Assimilation and Predictability. Cambridge University Press. ISBN 0-521-79629-6.
- Roulstone, Ian and Norbury, John (2013). Invisible in the Storm: the role of mathematics in understanding weather. Princeton University Press.
- Thompson, Philip (1961). Numerical Weather Analysis and Prediction. New York: The Macmillan Company.
- U.S. Department of Commerce, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, National Weather Service, ed. (1979). National Weather Service Handbook No. 1 – Facsimile Products. Washington, DC: Department of Commerce.

External links

- NOAA Supercomputer upgrade
- NOAA Supercomputers
- Air Resources Laboratory
- Fleet Numerical Meteorology and Oceanography Center
- European Centre for Medium-Range Weather Forecasts
- UK Met Office

https://www.data.gov/applications

The Fleet Numerical Meteorology and Oceanography Center (FNMOC)

The Fleet Numerical Meteorology and Oceanography Center (FNMOC) provides the highest quality, most relevant and timely worldwide meteorology and oceanography support to U.S. and coalition forces from its Operations Center in Monterey, California.

- Meteorology Products
This area provides Global & Regional Weather Prediction Charts (WXMAP) and Global Ensemble Weather Prediction Charts (EFS). WxMAP depictions of NCEP global NWP model (GFS) predictions for side-by-side comparison with NOGAPS are also available.

- Oceanography Products
This area provides Global & Regional Ocean Wave Prediction Charts (WW3), Global Ensemble Ocean Wave Prediction Charts (WW3 Ensemble), and Global Sea Surface Temperature and Sea Surface Temperature Anomaly Charts (NCODA).

- Tropical Applications
This area provides links to satellite imagery of tropical cyclones (TCWEB) and current tropical storm forecast tracks.

- Climatology & Archived Data
This area provides links to the Global Ocean Data Assimilation Experiment (GODAE) for climatological products.

https://github.com/Vizzuality/gfw

Global Warming Solutions: Fight Misinformation

Why has it been so difficult to achieve meaningful solutions to global warming? Media pundits, partisan think tanks, and special interest groups funded by fossil fuel and related industries raise doubts about the truth of global warming.

These contrarians downplay and distort the evidence of climate change, demand policies that allow industries to continue polluting, and attempt to undercut existing pollution standards.

This barrage of misinformation misleads and confuses the public about the growing consequences of global warming — and makes it more difficult to implement the solutions we need to effectively reduce the man-made emissions that cause global warming.

Together with its members and supporters, UCS actively fights misrepresentations of climate science and provides sound, science-based evidence to set the record straight, including resources to help you communicate the real facts about global warming.

- Take Action: Help Effectively Communicate Climate Science

Documenting Inaccurate Coverage of Climate Science by Major Cable News Outlets

CNN, Fox News, and MSNBC are the most widely watched cable news networks in the U.S. An analysis of 2013 coverage shows that the accuracy of climate science coverage varies significantly by network — and that all of them can and should take steps to improve.

Exposing the Fossil Fuel Industry's Disinformation Playbook

In this interactive slideshow, UCS reveals the secret tactics used by the fossil fuel industry to spread disinformation and delay action on climate change — the very same tactics used by Big Tobacco for years to mislead the public about the dangers of smoking.

Calling Out Fox News for Misleading Coverage of Climate Science

Millions of Americans get information about climate science from the Fox News Channel, yet a 2012 UCS snapshot analysis found that representations of climate science on Fox News Channel were misleading 93 percent of the time.

Another prominent News Corporation outlet, the Wall Street Journal's opinion page, similarly misled the public in 81 percent of letters, op-eds, columns, and editorials.

Showing How the News Media Help the Fossil Fuel Industry Spread Climate Disinformation

A UCS investigation showed that the U.S. news media routinely fail to inform the public about the fossil fuel industry funders behind climate change contrarian think tanks. From 2011 - 2012, two-thirds of stories from eight top news organizations did not identify the fossil fuel industry funding of eight prominent climate contrarian groups.

Exposing Special Interest Groups and Policy Makers who Misrepresent Climate Science

Got Science?, a monthly UCS column, features stories of policy makers and special interest groups who have run roughshod over scientific evidence. Past columns have debunked fake government reports, countered misinformation about renewable energy, and exposed state-level efforts to suppress research on sea level rise.

Fighting Back Against Attacks on Climate Science and Scientists

UCS set the record straight in several recent instances of misinformation about climate science, and fought back against deliberate attacks on climate scientists, including:

- Actively — and successfully — fighting back against attacks on climate scientist Michael Mann by Virginia Attorney General Ken Cuccinelli.
- Defending the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) from misleading allegations about its 2007 climate change assessment.

- Revealing the truth about ExxonMobil's disinformation tactics, which included funneling nearly $16 million to a network of 43 advocacy organizations that seek to confuse the public on climate science.

- Debunking misinformation about "Climategate," a manufactured controversy over emails stolen from the University of East Anglia's Climatic Research Unit.
- Setting the record straight in the popular press for books that distort the facts about climate science, including The Skeptical Environmentalist, SuperFreakonomics, and Michael Chrichton's thriller, State of Fear.

Resources for Effectively Communicating Climate Science

You can help fight misinformation about global warming by effectively communicating the facts about climate science, whether to your friends, your community, the media, or directly to policy makers.

UCS offers a range of resources to help you improve your science communication skills and develop effective techniques for presenting information about global warming, including a series of webinars designed to provide you with useful tools and best practices for talking about global warming and understanding how people perceive and take in information.

Learn more:

- Webinar Series: A Scientist’s Guide to Communicating Climate Science
- America's Climate Choices Webinar Series
- Webinar Series: A Voice for Science and Scientists in California Climate Policy
- Increasing Public Understanding of Climate Risks and Choices
- Climate Science Under Attack: How Can We Change the Narrative?
- Suggested Scientific Concepts on Urgency
- Global Warming Materials for Educators

Global Warming Solutions: Reduce Emissions

In order to effectively address global warming, we must significantly reduce the amount of heat-trapping emissions we are putting into the atmosphere.

The good news is that we have the technology and practical solutions at hand to accomplish it.

As individuals, we can help by taking action to reduce our personal carbon emissions. But to fully address the threat of global warming, we must demand action from our elected leaders to support and implement a comprehensive set of climate solutions.

A Comprehensive Set of Smart Solutions to Reduce Emissions

- Expand the use of renewable energy and transform our energy system to one that is cleaner and less dependent on coal and other fossil fuels.

- Increase vehicle fuel efficiency and support other solutions that reduce U.S. oil use.
- Place limits on the amount of carbon that polluters are allowed to emit.
- Build a clean energy economy by investing in efficient energy technologies, industries, and approaches.
- Reduce tropical deforestation and its associated global warming emissions.
- Implement effective national and regional climate policies.

Steps the EPA Must Take To Reduce Global Warming Emissions

The Clean Air Act requires the Environmental Protection Agency to take steps to reduce air pollution that harms the public's health. This includes global warming emissions, which the EPA has found to endanger public health.

The EPA is moving forward with its responsibility to set standards that reduce global warming emissions, but it must do more to to protect public health. In particular, the EPA must establish standards for new and existing power plants that limit the amount of carbon they are allowed to emit.

Climate 2030: A National Blueprint for a Clean Energy Economy

We can make the transition to a clean energy economy today, while protecting our climate, saving consumers money, and putting Americans back to work. What we need is a set of smart, praactical policies to jump-start this transition without delay and maximize the benefits to our environment and economy.

This comprehensive, peer-reviewed study outlines the steps we can take today to build a clean energy economy, dramatically reduce emissions, and give our children a healthy future.

Building Support for National Climate Policies

Extreme heat, drought, storms, and other weather disasters are increasingly fueled by climate change and affect everyone regardless of political affiliation. To address global warming, policy makers must find bipartisan solutions that substantially reduce heat-trapping emissions.

Taking climate action can bring significant benefits to the United States, and the economic facts clearly support U.S. action to curb global warming emissions — including the prohibitive costs of doing nothing. An effective national climate policy must include several key elements; one effective approach would be a well-designed cap-and-trade program for carbon emissions.

In July 2013, President Obama outlined a national climate action plan that focuses on several specific ways to reduce emissions. Given the current political situation in Washington, it is unlikely that any broader national climate policies will emerge from Congress in the near-term future — continued and growing public demand for climate action will be essential to enact effective global warming solutions in the years to come.

State and Regional Climate Policies

Several states and regions have already established climate policies aimed at curbing global emissions, notably in California and the Northeast. Learn more about these policies — and what you can do to help support them — in these regional pages:

California & Western States |Southwest
Midwest | Northeast | Southeast

International Climate Treaty Negotiations

Global warming is a global issue. Strong U.S. action and leadership is critical, but so too are international efforts that work toward reducing emissions worldwide.

To support this effort, UCS regularly sends policy experts, scientists, and climate economists to international climate treaty negotiations, the most prominent of which is the annual Conference of Parties (COP) to the United Nation’s Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCC).

What You Can Do about Global Warming

- Take Personal Action
- Encourage Community Action
- Influence U.S. Action and Policy
- Join Others Who Take a Stand

Because emissions of heat-trapping gases in the United States are so high and continue to accumulate in the atmosphere, Americans have a special responsibility and opportunity to reduce global warming. Here are some ways you can help:

Take Personal Action

Reduce your personal contribution to global warming and set an example for others by using less gasoline, natural gas, oil, and electricity (especially electricity generated from coal-fired power plants) in your daily life. Here are three suggestions:

- Reduce the amount of gas you burn by choosing a fuel-efficient car or other transportation that uses less (or no) fossil fuel per person, such as trains, subways, and buses; car pools; walking; and biking.

- Buy efficient appliances that use less electricity. Look for the Energy Star, awarded by the Environmental Protection Agency.
- Reduce every day electrical use. Develop a plan to reduce daily electricity use around your home. Ask each member of your household to take responsibility for a different electricity-saving action, such as turning off lights when leaving the room, unplugging appliances when they are not in use, using compact fluorescent light bulbs (CFLs), and only running dishwashers or washing machines with full loads.

Our 2012 book, Cooler Smarter: Practical Steps for Low-Carbon Living, offers a wealth of science-based advice on how to reduce your global warming impact by "sweating the right stuff."

It also inspires and challenges you to become a low-carbon leader in your community—our Cooler Smarter Trivia Night Kit provides you with a fun and engaging way to get started.

Encourage Community Action

Work within your community to promote energy efficiency and use of clean energy. Here are some good places to start:

- Make it easier for community members to use energy-efficient transportation. For example, promote community carpooling plans and the construction of bike lanes, and urge local businesses, government agencies, and nonprofit organizations to install bike racks.

- Encourage the use of clean, renewable energy in publicly funded projects. For example, suggest that new construction or significant remodeling projects incorporate passive-solar techniques.

- Work with your local electric utilities. Encourage them to promote energy efficiency and the use of clean, renewable energy sources.

Check the UCS Activist Resource Center for tips on working with policy makers and the media.

Influence U.S. Action

The United States needs to play a leadership role in addressing global warming, and you can help make this happen.

- Write to your local newspaper about the significance of global warming and the need for U.S. leadership, or respond to stories and letters that dismiss global warming.

- Write or call President Obama to let him know you expect him to be an international leader on this issue.
- Contact your U.S. representatives and senators to encourage them to support actions that reduce the emissions of heat-trapping gases.
- Ask your governor, state legislators, and public utility regulators to promote energy efficiency, nonpolluting transportation alternatives, and the development of clean, renewable sources of energy, such as solar and wind power.

Join Others Who Take a Stand

Help our voices be heard. Join with others who are working to reduce global warming.

- Become a member of Union of Concerned Scientists to help us educate and mobilize scientists, economists, and citizens.

- If you are a scientist, economist, engineer, or health professional, join our UCS Science Network to influence fast-breaking media and policy developments on global warming issues.

See what our activists have been doing recently and what they've helped us accomplish.

Global Warming Solutions: Prepare for Impacts

Certain consequences of global warming are now inevitable, including sea level rise, more frequent and severe heat waves, growing wildfire risks, and an increase in extreme weather events.

These consequences were once largely preventable, but foot-dragging by our elected leaders and policy makers over the past two decades means that we must now confront the dangerous new reality of rising temperatures and the serious impacts that accompany them.

We must take immediate action to reduce our global warming emissions and prevent these consequences from growing more costly and severe in the future. But we must also now prepare for the unavoidable effects that have already been set in motion.

The effects of global warming vary by region. Cities and communities must plan accordingly.

Along the coast, residents and city planners must confront the reality of accelerating sea level rise and the growing risk of destructive coastal flooding events. This is especially true along the U.S. East Coast and Gulf of Mexico, which are experiencing much faster rates of sea level rise than the global average.

To prepare, we must make smart decisions today that help protect lives and coastal property, and that discourage development in high-risk flood areas.

Extreme heat events are increasing in many parts of the country, especially in the Midwest, and dangerously hot weather is expected to become more common in the decades ahead. Searing temperatures particularly increase the health risks for the young and elderly, and cities and communities must take steps today to minimize the health impacts of extreme heat.

In the Western U.S., the number of large wildfires is increasing and wildfire season is now two months longer than it was 40 years ago. Winter snowpack is melting earlier in the year in response to rising temperatures, which creates hotter, drier conditions that are primed for wildfires to ignite and spread. Communities must prepare for these growing wildfire risks, and make smart choices that help protect lives and properties.

Global warming is changing precipitation patterns, with far-reaching implications nationwide. We must prepare for them.

As the planet warms, scientists expect certain areas to receive more precipitation while others will see a decrease in annual rain and snowfall. Though the exact changes vary by location and region, as a general rule currently wet areas will get wetter and dry areas will become drier.

This trend greatly increases the risk of severe drought in certain regions, including major agricultural areas such as the U.S. Midwest, with potentially serious consequences for our food supply.

Changing precipitation patterns also have significant implications for our electricity system. Many power plants require a tremendous amount of water to operate; when there is not enough, or when water temperatures get too high, they must reduce production or shut down entirely. To minimize the risks of disruption, we must make water-smart decisions today that move the country towards low- and no-water electricity sources like renewable energy and energy efficiency.

Global warming is also increasing the number of extreme preciptitation events. Since 1958, the amount of rain or snow falling in the heaviest one percent of storms has risen nearly 20 percent, averaged nationally. This increases the risk of flooding and makes it essential that cities and communities prepare for the increased likelihood of flood events.

We must work to effectively manage the unavoidable, and take immediate action to avoid the unmanageable.

Heat-trapping gases already in the atmosphere will cause additional warming — and increasing consequences — over the coming decades. To prepare, we must take steps today to build more resilient cities and communities.

At the same time, we must quickly, and dramatically, reduce the heat-trapping emissions that drive global warming.

The choices we make today will determine how high temperatures rise, how severe and costly the consequences of global warming become, and what type of future our children will ultimately inherit. We must act now to ensure a healthy and safe planet for future generations.

http://podaac.jpl.nasa.gov/
http://podaac-tools.jpl.nasa.gov/soto/
http://podaac.jpl.nasa.gov/datasetlist?ids=Availability&values=NEAR_REAL_TIME
http://podaac.jpl.nasa.gov/datasetlist?ids=Collections&values=Gridded%20Climate%20Variables%20for%20Model%20Intercomparison
http://podaac-opendap.jpl.nasa.gov/opendap/allData/ostm/preview/L2/GPS-OGDR/latest/JA2_GPSOPR_2PdS216_213_20140522_052017_20140522_071843.nc.html
http://podaac.jpl.nasa.gov/ws/search/granule/?datasetId=PODAAC-GHMDA-2PJ01&startTime=2011-01-01T01:01:00Z&itemsPerPage=1

http://www.aviso.altimetry.fr/en/data/tools/software.html

http://las.aviso.oceanobs.com/las/getUI.do
The following URL will return you to this dataset and variable.
http://las.aviso.oceanobs.com/las/getUI.do?dsid=dataset-duacs-nrt-over30d-global-merged-msla-h-latlon-switched&varid=grid_0001&auto=true

The following URL represents the plot currently shown.
http://las.aviso.oceanobs.com/las/ProductServer.do?xml=%3C%3Fxml+version%3D%221.0%22%3F%3E%3ClasRequest+href%3D%22file%3Alas.xml%22%3E%3Clink+match%3D%22%2Flasdata%2Foperations%2Foperation%5B%40ID%3D%27Plot_2D_XY_zoom%27%5D%22%3E%3C%2Flink%3E%3Cproperties%3E%3Cferret%3E%3Cview%3Exy%3C%2Fview%3E%3Cland_type%3Edefault%3C%2Fland_type%3E%3Cset_aspect%3Edefault%3C%2Fset_aspect%3E%3Cmark_grid%3Eno%3C%2Fmark_grid%3E%3Ccontour_levels%3E%3C%2Fcontour_levels%3E%3Cfill_levels%3E%3C%2Ffill_levels%3E%3Ccontour_style%3Edefault%3C%2Fcontour_style%3E%3Cpalette%3Edefault%3C%2Fpalette%3E%3Cdeg_min_sec%3Edefault%3C%2Fdeg_min_sec%3E%3Cmargins%3Edefault%3C%2Fmargins%3E%3Cuse_graticules%3Edefault%3C%2Fuse_graticules%3E%3Csize%3E0.5%3C%2Fsize%3E%3Cimage_format%3Edefault%3C%2Fimage_format%3E%3Cinterpolate_data%3Efalse%3C%2Finterpolate_data%3E%3Cexpression%3E%3C%2Fexpression%3E%3C%2Fferret%3E%3C%2Fproperties%3E%3Cargs%3E%3Clink+match%3D%22%2Flasdata%2Fdatasets%2Fdataset-duacs-nrt-over30d-global-merged-msla-h-latlon-switched%2Fvariables%2Fgrid_0001%22%3E%3C%2Flink%3E%3Cregion%3E%3Crange+type%3D%22y%22+low%3D%22-82%22+high%3D%2281.97463620419%22%3E%3C%2Frange%3E%3Crange+type%3D%22x%22+low%3D%22-180%22+high%3D%22179.66666666667%22%3E%3C%2Frange%3E%3Cpoint+type%3D%22t%22+v%3D%2201-MAY-2013+00%3A00%3A00%22%3E%3C%2Fpoint%3E%3C%2Fregion%3E%3C%2Fargs%3E%3C%2FlasRequest%3E

http://mgel.env.duke.edu/mget

http://www.isse.ucar.edu/initiatives.php

http://ncar.maps.arcgis.com/apps/MapTour/index.html?appid=83199fa404524a23942720c0ecda52e8

http://ncar.maps.arcgis.com/apps/OnePane/basicviewer/index.html?appid=61e51103771f4b668b5872162dd13836
http://gisclimatechange.ucar.edu/inspector

http://www.climate-services.org/projects
Current projects with which the Unified Model climate configurations are involved include:

- Development of the HadGEM3 family : a family of climate models which uses the NEMO ocean model and CICE sea-ice model components and includes configurations with significantly increased horizontal and vertical resolution.  It is planned that climate configurations of the MetUM at all timescales will move to the HadGEM3 family over the next few years.
- ENSEMBLES: an ensemble prediction system for climate change based on the principal state-of-the-art, high resolution, global and regional Earth System models developed in Europe;
- UK Climate Projections ( UKCP09): using cutting-edge science to understand how the UK's climate may change over this century;
- Providing Regional Climates for Impacts Studies (PRECIS)]: a regional climate modelling system which can be applied to any area of the globe to generate detailed climate change projections;
- Joint UK Land Environment Simulator ( JULES): a joint project with NERC which uses the Met Office Surface Exchange System, a computer model which represents the land, to help predict climate change impacts on land;
- Joint Weather Climate Research Programme ( JWCRP): a Met Office/NERC initiative to strengthen the UK's world-leading reputation in climate science, partly through development of better modelling tools;
- Climateprediction.net: a distributed computing project to produce predictions of the Earth's climate up to 2080 and to test the accuracy of climate models.

http://www.metoffice.gov.uk/precis/

http://www.dec.ny.gov/animals/7312.html
http://www.dec.ny.gov/imsmaps/bbatlas/viewer.htm

Python Tools for Oceanographic Analysis

A collaborative effort to organize Python tools for the Oceanographic Community

The Basics

Python

Need no introduction :-)

IPython

An enhanced interactive Python shell.

NumPy

Support for large, multi-dimensional arrays and matrices, along with a large library of high-level mathematical functions to operate on these arrays.

SciPy

Library of algorithms and mathematical tools for the Python programming language.

Plotting

matplotlib

2D plotting library which produces publication quality figures in a variety of hardcopy formats and interactive environments.

mayavi

Scripting for 3D plotting (Part of ETS.)

gnuplot-py

Package that interfaces to gnuplot, the popular open-source plotting program.

PyNGL

Scientific visualization

mplh5canvas

Web-delivered interactive matplotlib backend using HTML5 technologies

pyncview

NetCDF viewer written in Python.

Data IO

netcdf4-python

Python/numpy interface to netCDF

python-blosc

Wrapper for the Blosc compressor.

PyTables

Package for managing hierarchical datasets and designed to efficiently and easily cope with extremely large amounts of data.

h5py

Interface to the HDF5 library.

PyNIO

File input/output

Pydap

Library implementing the Data Access Protocol.

Time Series

tappy

Tidal analysis package.

dateutil

Provides powerful extensions to the standard datetime module.

PyWavelets

Wavelet transform module.

wafo

Routines for statistical analysis and simulation of random waves and random loads.

pandas

Cross-section and time series data analysis toolkit

scikits.timeseries

Classes and functions for manipulating, reporting, and plotting time series of various frequencies.

Currents

CODAS, Lowered ADCP

Atmosphere

http://www.johnny-lin.com/py_pkgs/atmqty/doc/

Methods to calculate atmospheric quantities (on the Earth) that are directly derivative (i.e. not requiring time integration or modeling) from standard state variables.

airsea

Translation of the original AIR_SEA toolbox for Matlab.

Numerical Modeling

octant

Ocean C-grid model seTup and Analysis Toolkit. The toolkit contains general modeling tools for dealing with arrays, diagnosing standard properties, curvilinear grid generation, and interpolation. Specific tools are also included for ROMS and GETM.

pyroms

Collection of tools to help with input and output files

from the Regional Ocean Modeling System (ROMS).

Mapping

basemap

Matplotlib Basemap Toolkit.

motionless

Library that takes the pain out of generating Google Static Map URLs.

PySAL

Python Spatial Analysis Library.

Hydrographic

python-seawater

A oceanographic toolbox of the International Thermodynamic Equation Of Seawater - 2010, (TEOS-10).

Climate

PyClimate

Designed to accomplish some usual tasks needed during the analysis of climate variability. It provides functions to handle simple I/O operations, handling of COARDS-compliante netCDF files, EOF analysis, SVD and CCA analysis of coupled data sets, some linear digital filters, kernel based probability density function estimation and access to DCDFLIB.C library

https://code.launchpad.net/~pierregm/scipy/climpy

climpy module.

CDAT

Climate Data Analysis Tools.

ccc-gistemp

Reimplementation of GISTEMP in Python for clarity.

Statistics

statsmodels

Statistical computations and models for use with SciPy.

scikit.learn

Module integrating classic machine learning algorithms in the tightly-knit world of scientific Python packages.

RPy

Interface to the R Programming Language.

pymc

Markov chain Monte Carlo for Python

Misc

scitools

Contains many useful tools for scientific computing in Python. The package is built on top of other widely used packages such as NumPy, SciPy, ScientificPython, Matplotlib, Gnuplot, etc.

uncertainties

Transparent calculations with uncertainties on the quantities involved (aka "error propagation") ; fast calculation of derivatives.

numexpr

Fast numerical array expression evaluator for Python and NumPy.

http://pypi.python.org/pypi/Bottleneck

Fast NumPy array functions written in Cython.

spyderlib

Scientific PYthon Development EnviRonment.

enthought

Provides scientists with a comprehensive set of tools to perform rigorous data analysis and visualization.

SciPy scikits

Scipy Toolkits are independent and seperately installable projects hosted under a common namespace. Packages that are distributed in this way are here (instead of in monolithic scipy) for at least one of three general reasons. Each of these reasons use the same high-level namespace (scikits).

fwrap

Wraps FORTRAN code.

gmpy

A C-coded Python extension module that wraps the GMP library to provide to Python code fast multiprecision arithmetic (integer, rational, and float), random number generation, advanced number-theoretical functions, and more.

SymPy

Library for symbolic mathematics.

units

Support for quantities with units.

PyEphem

Scientific-grade astronomical computations.

Astropysics

Astrophysics utilities.

biopython

Biological computation.

PyPI

The Python Package Index is a repository.

mpl_toolkits

Collections of application-specific functions that extend matplotlib.

Topical Software

SciPy Topical Software.

Report an Environmental Emergency
http://www.ct.gov/deep/cwp/view.asp?a=2690&q=322474&deepNav_GID=1511

Concern or Problem Topic

Who to Contact
(DEEP or other as noted)

Additional Information

Air Pollution

Outdoor Air
(Odors, emissions, burning, fugitive dust)

DEEP Air Management - 860-424-3436 or email deep.aircomplaints@ct.gov

EPA - Air Pollution Information

Indoor Air Quality

Health Questions:
Connecticut Department of Public Health (DPH) 860-509-7742 or your local health department

DPH Environmental and Occupational Health Assessment Program

EPA - Indoor Air Quality Information

Workplace Issues - Public Sector Employees:
CT Department of Labor, Occupational Safety & Health - 860-263-6900

Connecticut Department of Labor Occupational Safety and Health (CONN-OSHA)

Workplace Issues - Private Sector Employees:
Federal OSHA - 860-240-3152

Animals

Dead animals, roadkill

Town Public Works Department

For State roads:
CT Department of Transportation (DOT) - 860-594-2000

Municipal Websites

DOT

Dead birds (Questions or concerns regarding West Nile Virus, testing)

Your local health department

ATVs - All Terrain Vehicles
(Illegal operation)

On State Parks, Forests, Trails

DEEP Law Enforcement - 860-424-3333

All-Terrain Vehicle Policy and Procedures

On All Other Property

Local Police Department (Do Not Call 911)

Municipal Websites

Asbestos

Disposal

DEEP Solid Waste Program - 860-424-3366

Asbestos Disposal Authorization Fact Sheet

All other asbestos issues

Connecticut Department of Public Health (DPH) Asbestos Program
860-509-7367

DPH Asbestos Program

Boating

Safety Violations

DEEP Law Enforcement - 860-424-3333

Boating in Connecticut

General Boating Concerns

DEEP Boating Division - 860-434-8638 or deep.boating@ct.gov

Coastal Issues
(Illegal docks, structures obstructing navigation, coastal wetlands, dredging and fill)

DEEP Office of Long Island Sound Programs - 860-424-3034

Coastal Management Guidance and Standards

Drinking Water Quality

Public Water Supplies

Connecticut Department of Public Health (DPH) - 860-509-7333

DPH - Public Water System - Consumer Information

Private Wells

General questions/concerns regarding well water quality or well construction including routine potability testing should be directed to your Local health department.

Questions/concerns regarding known or suspected contamination of private wells, pollution resulting from human activities, including chemical or petroleum pollution, should be directed to DEEP's Remediation Program at 860-424-3705.

EPA - Private Drinking Water Wells

Dumping
(Improper dumping or disposing of solid waste)

Your Town/City Public Works Department

DEEP's Illegal Dumping Toll Free Hotline:  1-866-363-3867

Municipal Websites

Illegal dumping

Excavations

Call Before You Dig (CBYD) - 811 or 800-922-4455
General Concerns - PURA CBYD Unit

CBYD
PURA CBYD Program

Fishing

Illegal Activity

DEEP Law Enforcement - 860-424-3333
Turn In Poachers (TIP) 800-842-4357

Angler's Guide

Fish kills
(Dead/distressed fish)

Coastal waters, Long Island Sound:
DEEP Marine Fisheries Division - 860-434-6043

Lakes/ponds, rivers/streams:
DEEP Inland Fisheries Division - 860-424-3474

All locations and nights and weekends:
DEEP Law Enforcement - 860-424-3333

Gas Leaks/Odors

Natural Gas Distribution / Transmission Companies

Propane Distribution Companies
General Concerns:
PURA Gas Pipeline Safety Unit

Natural Gas

Propane

Hunting
(Illegal Activity)

DEEP Law Enforcement - 860-424-3333
Turn In Poachers (TIP) 800-842-4357

Hunting & Trapping Guide

Lead Contaminated Soils or Debris

DEEP Waste Management - 860-424-3023

Lead Paint/Lead Poisoning

Connecticut Department of Public Health (DPH) - 860-509-7299

DPH Lead Poisoning Prevention Program

EPA - Lead in Paint, Dust and Soil

Mercury

Mercury Poisoning

Poison Control Center at the UCONN Health Center at 1-800-222-1222
Hearing impaired - call 1-866-218-5372

EPA - Mercury Information

Mercury Spill

DEEP Emergency Response and Spill Prevention - 860-424-3338

Broken Thermometer Guidance

Noise

Your local municipality

Municipal Websites

Noise Control

Pesticides

DEEP Pesticide Management Program - 860-424-3369

EPA - Pesticides Information

EPA - Emergency Information

PCBs ("Polychlorinated Biphenyls")

DEEP PCB Program - 860-424-3368

Radon

Connecticut Department of Public Health (DPH)
860-509-7367

DPH Radon Program

Recycling

DEEP Recycling Program - 860-424-3366

Reduce/Reuse/Recycle

State Parks, Forests, Trails

Illegal Activity

DEEP Law Enforcement - 860-424-3333

General Conditions, etc.

DEEP State Parks Office - 860-424-3200 or deep.stateparks@ct.gov

Underground Storage Tanks

DEEP Storage Tank Enforcement Unit - 860-424-3374

Waste

Hazardous Waste
(Abandoned, improper storage, or improper disposal)

DEEP Waste Management - 860-424-3023 or 888-424-4193

Medical Waste
(Improper Disposal)

DEEP Solid Waste Program - 860-424-3366

Solid Waste
(Improper Disposal)

DEEP Solid Waste Program - 860-424-3366

Wastewater (Sewage) Treatment Facilities
(Collection system bypass or failure)

DEEP Wastewater Facilities Management -
860-424-3704 (during normal business hours)
866-DEP-SPIL (866-377-7745) or 860-424-3338 (nights and weekends)

Municipal Websites

Water Pollution
(Illegal discharges into streams/rivers or lakes)

DEEP Water Enforcement - 860-424-3025

Wetlands
(unauthorized fill or dredging)

Inland Wetlands
DEEP Inland Water Resources - 860-424-3019

Coastal Wetlands
DEEP Office of Long Island Sound Programs - 860-424-3034

Municipal Websites

Wetlands

Wildlife

Distressed Wildlife
(Sick, injured, orphaned)

DEEP Wildlife Division - 860-424-3011

Dealing with Distressed Wildlife

Nuisance Wildlife

DEEP Wildlife Division - 860-424-3011

Nuisance Wildlife Information and Suggestions

Don't know who to call?

Try the DEEP information line - 860-424-3000 or check the list of Program Phone Numbers

http://www.pocketranger.com/apps

Free Software

R

R is a popular language and environment for statistical computing and graphics.

Official Site »
Download »

- Comprehensive R Archive Network
- RStudio is a nice free IDE for working with R.
- Revolution R Enterprise (big-data R), free for use in Kaggle competitions

Apeks.io

Apeks.io is a machine learning tools for data classification and prediction. Apeks.io has a great collection of machine learning algorithms.

Official Site »

Weka

Weka is a collection of machine learning algorithms for data mining tasks, in Java.

Official Site »
Download »

Cascading

Cascading is an Apache Licensed software abstraction layer for Apache Hadoop for creating complex workloads and queries.

- Pattern - run models directly on Hadoop from PMML exports or build complex custom ensembles via the Java API.
- Lingual - run ANSI SQL queries on Hadoop either though popular SQL Clients via the JDBC Driver, or via an API for complex workloads/queries, or by mixing SQL with PMML into a single application. Works great with R as a client.

Official Site »
Download »

Apache Mahout

Apache Licensed, Java- and Hadoop-based scalable machine learning library.

Official Site »
Download »

PredictionIO

An open source scalable machine learning server for programmers and data engineers to build smart software. It is algorithm-agnostic and has built-in support to Apache Mahout.

Official Site » Download »

Octave

GNU Octave is a high-level language, primarily intended for numerical computations — A.K.A. "Free MATLAB".

Official Site »
Download »

LibFM

A Factorization Machine Library by Steffen Rendle, winner of the Grockit competition.

Official Site »

XGBoost

An optimized general purpose gradient boosting library. The library is parallelized using OpenMP. It implements machine learning algorithm under gradient boosting framework, including generalized linear model and gradient boosted regression tree. It supports various objective functions, including regression, classification and ranking. The package is also made to be extensible, so that users are also allowed to define their own objectives easily. Besides the standalone console version, you can use XGBoost in python, R and Julia

Besides the parallel version. XGBoost now also provide a distributed version that can run various platforms such as Hadoop and MPI

Official Site »

GraphLab

A parallel framework for machine learning, has many collaborative filtering algorithms.

Official Site » Download »

MyMediaLite

MyMediaLite is a lightweight, multi-purpose library of recommender system algorithms.

Official Site » Download »

Myrrix

A scalable real-time recommender engine platform, evolved from Apache Mahout. The single-machine Serving Layer is free and open source.

Official Site » Download »

Mersenne Twister

The pseudo-random generator with the coolest-sounding name, and that's why you should use it (in addition to its other redeeming qualities).

Official Site »

SciLua

SciLua is a framework for general purpose scientific computing based on LuaJIT. It includes vector/matrix algebra, random number generators/distributions, root finding and optimisation algorithms, automatic differentiation, others ... Also included a module to interface with R.

Official Site »

Torch7

Torch7 is a scientific computing framework with wide support for machine learning algorithms, similar to Matlab/Octave, but ANN focused.

Official Site »

APRIL-ANN

A Pattern Recognizer In Lua with Artificial Neural Networks is recently and in development open source tool which allows to train ANNs among other machine learning models for a wide range of pattern recognition tasks.

Official Site »

HyperOpt

A hyperparameter optimization framework implemented in Python. Useful to estimate hyperpara,eters like learning rate, momentum, hidden layer sizes, ...

Official Site »

Commercial Software

Predixion

Predixion expedites the deployment of predictive applications to enable broader adoption of insights at the decision point.

Official Site »

Alpine Data Labs

Alpine is a visual and collaborative environment for building powerful end to end workflows (data mining, exploratory analysis, modeling, and scoring) with support for many databases and Hadoop.

Official Site »

MATLAB

MATLAB (matrix laboratory) is a numerical computing environment and programming language.

Official Site »

- Statistics Toolbox (Regression, Clustering, TreeBagger...)
- Neural Network Toolbox
- Bioinformatics Toolbox (Nearest Neighbors, SVM...)

Mathematica

Official Site »

Neural Designer

Neural Designer is a professional application for predictive analytics which transforms raw data in useful knowledge through trained neural networks.

Official Site »

SAS

Official Site »

SPSS

Official Site »

Portrait Software

Official Site »

Microsoft Excel

Official Site »

Skytree Server Free Edition

Machine Learning and advanced analytics engine, designed to accurately process massive datasets at high speeds.

Official Site »

General Purpose Programming Languages

R

- Machine Learning Packages in R

Python

- scikits-learn
- nltk
- rpy2

C++

Java

C

Julia

- XGBoost.jl

Lua

Tools and Libraries

In this class, you will need to install a number of tools. The major ones are:

- python 2.7

    - Python is usually installed in Mac OSX and major unix distributions. Type python --version to make sure it is the right version
- easy_install

    - python package manager.
- pip

    - Makes installing python packages really easy. Requires easy_install.
    - Either install it by typing sudo easy_install pip or download the tar.gz file at the link above, untar it, go into the newly created directory, and type sudo python setup.py install.
- git

    - git is a version control system. Using it, you can check out our code and examples.
    - If everything is working, check the dataiap sourcecode into a directory called dataiap using git clone git://github.com/dataiap/dataiap.git dataiap
    - We'll be updating the repository periodically. To get the latest copy, go to the dataiap directory and type git pull.

We will also require a number of python modules:

- numpy 1.6.x: numerical processing module.
    - PIP users can type sudo pip install numpy

- scipy 0.10: scientific computing module.

    - Ubuntu users can type sudo apt-get install python-scipy
    - PIP users can type sudo pip install scipy
    - Even if PIP works, at least on MacOS you might have to install Fortran. We strongly recommend reading and following the installation instructions.
    - Unfortunately, scipy installation might not work from PIP, and you may have to compile it from source (see "Obtaining and Building NumPy and SciPy"). Try something akin to
        - git clone https://github.com/scipy/scipy.git
        - cd scipy
        - python setup.py build
        - python setup.py install

- matplotlib 1.1.0

    - PIP users can type sudo pip install matplotlib
    - Note: If compiling from source, matplot lib requires a number of other libraries: (libpng, freetype 2)
    - Some MacOS users might run into issues and should just download the binary.

- dateutil

    - PIP users can type sudo pip install python-dateutil
- pyparsing

    - PIP users can type sudo pip install pyparsing
- mrjob: This is a MapReduce package that we will use it in day 5.
    - PIP users can type sudo pip install mrjob
    - If compiling from source, it requires boto (try sudo pip install boto).

For convenience, Enthought provides numpy, scipy, matplotlib in a single installable package. Many students that had trouble installing these modules separately were able to install Enthought.

http://mloss.org/software/

MOOCs

Notable providers

Provider

Type

Example institutional participants

Headquarters

Founded

Content License

Stanford Online

Non-profit

Stanford University

USA

2006

Free for registered users, personal/non-commercial usage

Coursera

Commercial

Stanford University Princeton University

USA

2012

Free for registered users, different course licenses

Khan Academy

Non-profit

n/a

USA

2006

Free, No registration needed, all rights reserved.

NPTEL

Non-profit

Indian Institutes of Technology, Indian Institute of Science

India

2006

Free, No registration, Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike license.

WizIQ

Commercial

IIT Delhi, Des Moines Area Community College

India/USA

2007

Not Free, all rights reserved.

Canvas Network

Commercial

Santa Clara University, University of Utah, Université Lille 1

USA

2008

All Rights Reserved, registration required.

Peer to Peer University

Non-profit

n/a

USA

2009

Creative Commons Attribution Share Alike 4.0

Academic Earth

Non-profit

UC Berkeley, UCLA, University of Michigan, Oxford University

USA

2009

All rights reserved. Links to other courses with different licenses.

Udemy

Commercial

Professors from Universidad de Chile, University of Chicago Law School, George Washington University, and other institutions. Other professionals are also involved.

USA

2010

Udacity

Commercial

Georgia Institute of Technology, San Jose State University, Google, Salesforce.com, Facebook, Cloudera, Nvidia, Autodesk, Cadence

USA

2012

Eliademy based on the Open Source Moodle Virtual learning environment.[52]

Commercial

Aalto University Executive Education The site is localized to more than 19 languages (including Latin), designed for mobile use.[52][53]

Finland

2012

openHPI[54][55]

n/a

launched in September 2012 by the Hasso Plattner Institute at the University of Potsdam, Germany

Germany

2012

All rights reserved

FutureLearn[56][57]

Non-profit

University of Birmingham, University of Edinburgh, King's College London, University of Reading, Open University, Monash University, Trinity College Dublin, Warwick University, University of Bath, University of Southampton

UK

2012

All rights reserved.

OpenClassrooms[58][59]

Commercial

Google, Microsoft, IBM, Zendesk, École Polytechnique, CentraleSupélec

France

2007

Creative Commons licence, type BY-NC-SA

OpenLearning[60]

Commercial

University of New South Wales, Taylor's University, University of Canberra

Australia

2012

Coursera

Commercial

University of Maryland, Wharton School, University of Virginia, Stanford University, University of Houston System, University of Tokyo, University of Edinburgh

USA

2012

edX

Non-profit

MIT, Harvard University, Boston University, UC Berkeley, Kyoto University, Australian National University, University of Adelaide, University of Queensland, IIT Bombay, IIM Bangalore, Dartmouth College, Universidad Autonoma de Madrid

USA

2012

All rights reserved

iversity[37]

Commercial

Universidad Autonoma de Madrid, University of Florence, University of Hamburg

EU

2013

One Month

Commercial

School of Visual Arts

USA

2013

NovoEd

Commercial

Stanford University, Wharton, Princeton, Darden, Comcast, Carnegie Foundation, Universidad Católica de Chile

USA

2013

Coursmos

Commercial

Stanford University, Draper University, MIT

USA

2014

Open2Study[61][62]

Commercial

James Cook University, Griffith University, University of Wollongong, Flinders University, RMIT University, Central Institute of Technology, Sydney Institute, University of Western Sydney, Polytechnic West, Macquarie Graduate School of Management, Swinburne University of Technology, University of Newcastle, Jordan University of Science and Technology, University of Tasmania, International College of Management, Sydney, Massey University, Macquarie University, South China University of Technology, TAFE SA, Curtin University

Australia

2013

Emergence of innovative courses

Early cMOOCs such as CCK08 and ds106 used innovative pedagogy, with distributed learning materials rather than a video-lecture format, and a focus on education and learning, and digital storytelling respectively[12][13][14][15][16][17]

Following the 2011 launch of three stanford xMOOCs, including Introduction Into AI, launched by Sebastian Thrun and Peter Norvig[42] a number of other innovative courses have emerged. As of May 2014, more than 900 MOOCs are offered by US universities and colleges. As of February 2013 dozens of universities had affiliated with MOOCs, including many international institutions.[37][63] In addition, some organisations operate their own MOOCs – including Google's Power Search.

A range of courses have emerged; "There was a real question of whether this would work for humanities and social science", said Ng. However, psychology and philosophy courses are among Coursera's most popular. Student feedback and completion rates suggest that they are as successful as math and science courses [64] even though the corresponding completion rates are lower.[7]

In January 2012, University of Helsinki launched a Finnish MOOC in programming. The MOOC is used as a way to offer high-schools the opportunity to provide programming courses for their students, even if no local premises or faculty that can organize such courses exist.[65] The course has been offered recurringly, and the top-performing students are admitted to a BSc and MSc program in Computer Science at the University of Helsinki.[65][66] At a meeting on E-Learning and MOOCs, Jaakko Kurhila, Head of studies for University of Helsinki, Department of Computer Science, claimed that to date, there has been over 8000 participants in their MOOCs altogether.[67]

On 18 June 2012, Ali Lemus from Galileo University[68] launched the first Latin American MOOC titled "Desarrollando Aplicaciones para iPhone y iPad"[69] This MOOC is a Spanish remix of Stanford University's popular "CS 193P iPhone Application Development" and had 5,380 students enrolled. The technology used to host the MOOC was the Galileo Educational System platform (GES) which is based on the .LRN project.[70]

"Gender Through Comic Books" was a course taught by Ball State University's Christina Blanch on Instructure's Canvas Network, a MOOC platform launched in November 2012.[71] The course used examples from comic books to teach academic concepts about gender and perceptions.[72]

In November 2012, the University of Miami launched its first high school MOOC as part of Global Academy, its online high school. The course became available for high school students preparing for the SAT Subject Test in biology.[73]

During the Spring 2013 semester, Cathy Davidson and Dan Ariely taught the "Surprise Endings: Social Science and Literature" a SPOC course taught in-person at Duke University and also as a MOOC, with students from Duke running the online discussions.[2]

In the UK of summer 2013, Physiopedia ran their first MOOC regarding Professional Ethics in collaboration with University of the Western Cape in South Africa.[74] This was followed by a second course in 2014, Physiotherapy Management of Spinal Cord Injuries, which was accredited by the World Confederation of Physical Therapy and attracted approximately 4000 participants with a 40% completion rate.[75][76] Physiopedia is the first provider of physiotherapy/physical therapy MOOCs, accessible to participants worldwide[77]

In March 2013, Coursolve piloted a crowdsourced business strategy course for 100 organizations with the University of Virginia.[78] A data science MOOC began in May 2013.[79]

In May 2013 Coursera announced free e-books for some courses in partnership with Chegg, an online textbook-rental company. Students would use Chegg's e-reader, which limits copying and printing and could use the book only while enrolled in the class.[80]

In June 2013, the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill launched Skynet University,[81] which offers MOOCs on introductory astronomy. Participants gain access to the university's global network of robotic telescopes, including those in the Chilean Andes and Australia. It incorporates YouTube,[82] Facebook[83] and Twitter.[84]

In July 2013 the University of Tasmania launched Understanding Dementia, the world's first Dementia MOOC. With one of the world's highest completion rates (39%),[85] the course was recognized in the journal Nature.[86]

Startup Veduca[87] launched the first MOOCs in Brazil, in partnership with the University of São Paulo in June 2013. The first two courses were Basic Physics, taught by Vanderlei Salvador Bagnato, and Probability and Statistics, taught by Melvin Cymbalista and André Leme Fleury.[88] In the first two weeks following the launch at Polytechnic School of the University of São Paulo, more than 10,000 students enrolled.[89][90]

Startup Wedubox (Finalist at MassChallenge 2013)[91] launched the first MOOC in finance and third MOOC in Latam, the MOOC was created by Jorge Borrero (MBA Universidad de la Sabana) with the title "WACC and the cost of capital" it reached 2.500 students in Dec 2013 only 2 months after the launch.[citation needed]

In the fall 2014 Georgia Institute of Technology launched the first MOOD (massive online open degree) (Master's degree) in computer science for $7000 by partnering with Udacity and AT&T.[92][93][94]

In September 2014, the high street retailer, Marks & Spencer partnered up with University of Leeds to construct an MOOC business course "which will use case studies from the Company Archive alongside research from the University to show how innovation and people are key to business success. The course will be offered by the UK based MOOC platform, FutureLearn.[95]

On 16 March 2015, the University of Cape Town launched its first MOOC, Medicine and the Arts on the UK-led platform, Futurelearn.[96]

In July 2015, OpenClassrooms, jointly with IESA Multimedia, launches first MOOC-based Bachelor degree in multimedia project management, recognized by French state.[97]

Student experience and pedagogy

Students served

By June 2012 more than 1.5 million people had registered for classes through Coursera, Udacity and/or edX.[98][99] As of 2013, the range of students registered appears to be broad, diverse and non-traditional, but concentrated among English-speakers in rich countries. By March 2013, Coursera alone had registered about 2.8 million learners.[51] By October 2013, Coursera enrollment continued to surge, surpassing 5 million, while edX had independently reached 1.3 million.[64]

Coursera enrollees



Country

Percentage

United States

27.7%

India

8.8%

Brazil

5.1%

United Kingdom

4.4%

Spain

4.0%

Canada

3.6%

Australia

2.3%

Russia

2.2%

Rest of world

41.9%

A course billed as "Asia's first MOOC" given by the Hong Kong University of Science and Technology through Coursera starting in April 2013 registered 17,000 students. About 60% were from "rich countries" with many of the rest from middle-income countries in Asia, South Africa, Brazil or Mexico. Fewer students enrolled from areas with more limited access to the internet, and students from the People's Republic of China may have been discouraged by Chinese government policies.[100]

Koller stated in May 2013 that a majority of the people taking Coursera courses had already earned college degrees.[101]

According to a Stanford University study of a more general group of students "active learners" – anybody who participated beyond just registering – found that 64% of high school active learners were male and 88% were male for undergraduate- and graduate-level courses.[102]

A study from Stanford University's Learning Analytics group identified four types of students: auditors, who watched video throughout the course, but took few quizzes or exams; completers, who viewed most lectures and took part in most assessments; disengaged learners, who quickly dropped the course; and sampling learners, who might only occasionally watch lectures.[102] They identified the following percentages in each group:[103]

Course

Auditing

Completing

Disengaging

Sampling

High school

6%

27%

29%

39%

Undergraduate

6%

8%

12%

74%

Graduate

9%

5%

6%

80%

Jonathan Haber focused on questions of what students are learning and student demographics. About half the students taking US courses are from other countries and do not speak English as their first language. He found some courses to be meaningful, especially about reading comprehension. Video lectures followed by multiple choice questions can be challenging since they are often the "right questions." Smaller discussion boards paradoxically offer the best conversations. Larger discussions can be "really, really thoughtful and really, really misguided", with long discussions becoming rehashes or "the same old stale left/right debate."[104] MOOC helps everyone to learn according to their own pace . It helps us to access lectures from prestigious universities . It is also an cost effective medium.

MIT and Stanford University offered initial MOOCs in Computer Science and Electrical Engineering. Since engineering courses need prerequisites so at the outset upper-level engineering courses were nearly absent from the MOOC list. Now several universities are presenting undergraduate and advanced-level engineering courses .[105][106][107]

Educator experience

In 2013, the Chronicle of Higher Education surveyed 103 professors who had taught MOOCs. "Typically a professor spent over 100 hours on his MOOC before it even started, by recording online lecture videos and doing other preparation", though some instructors' pre-class preparation was "a few dozen hours." The professors then spent 8–10 hours per week on the course, including participation in discussion forums.[108]

The medians were: 33,000 students enrollees; 2,600 passing; and 1 teaching assistant helping with the class. 74% of the classes used automated grading, and 34% used peer grading. 97% of the instructors used original videos, 75% used open educational resources and 27% used other resources. 9% of the classes required a physical textbook and 5% required an e-book.[108][109]

Unlike traditional courses, MOOCs require additional skills, provided by videographers, instructional designers, IT specialists and platform specialists. Georgia Tech professor Karen Head reports that 19 people work on their MOOCs and that more are needed.[110] The platforms have availability requirements similar to media/content sharing websites, due to the large number of enrollees. MOOCs typically use cloud computing and are often created with authoring systems. Authoring tools for the creation of MOOCs are specialized packages of educational software like Elicitus, IMC Content Studio and Lectora that are easy-to-use and support e-learning standards like SCORM and AICC.

Completion rates

Completion rates are typically lower than 10%, with a steep participation drop starting in the first week. In the course Bioelectricity, Fall 2012 at Duke University, 12,725 students enrolled, but only 7,761 ever watched a video, 3,658 attempted a quiz, 345 attempted the final exam, and 313 passed, earning a certificate.[111][112]

Early data from Coursera suggest a completion rate of 7%–9%.[113] Most registered students intend to explore the topic rather than complete the course, according to Koller and Ng. The completion rate for students who complete the first assignment is about 45 percent. Students paying $50 for a feature designed to prevent cheating on exams have completion rates of about 70 percent.[114]

One online survey published a "top ten" list of reasons for dropping out.[115] These were that the course required too much time, or was too difficult or too basic. Reasons related to poor course design included "lecture fatigue" from courses that were just lecture videos, lack of a proper introduction to course technology and format, clunky technology and abuse on discussion boards. Hidden costs were cited, including required readings from expensive textbooks written by the instructor that also significantly limited students' access to learning material.[7] Other non-completers were "just shopping around" when they registered, or were participating for knowledge rather than a credential. Other reasons for the poor completion rates include the workload, length and difficulty of a course.[7] Providers are exploring multiple techniques to increase the often single-digit completion rates in many MOOCs.

About 10% of the students who sign up typically complete the course.[3] Most participants participate peripherally ("lurk"). For example, one of the first MOOCs in 2008 had 2200 registered members, of whom 150 actively interacted at various times.[116]

Learners control where, what, how and with whom they learn, although different learners choose to exercise more or less of that control.[117]

Students include traditional and distance university students, along with degreed professionals, educators, business people, researchers and others interested in internet culture.[113]

The effectiveness of MOOCs is an open question as completion rates are substantially less than traditional online education courses.[118][119] Alraimi et al. explained in their research model a substantial percentage of the variance for the intention to continue using MOOCs, which is significantly influenced by perceived reputation, perceived openness, perceived usefulness, perceived, and user satisfaction. Perceived reputation and perceived openness were the strongest predictors and have not previously been examined in the context of MOOCs.[119]

Instructional design

External video



10 Steps to Developing an Online Course: Walter Sinnott-Armstrong on YouTube, Duke University[120]

Designing, developing and running (Massive) Online Courses by George Siemens, Athabasca University[121]

Many MOOCs use video lectures, employing the old form of teaching (lecturing) using a new technology.[118][122] Thrun testified before the President’s Council of Advisors on Science and Technology (PCAST) that MOOC "courses are 'designed to be challenges,' not lectures, and the amount of data generated from these assessments can be evaluated 'massively using machine learning' at work behind the scenes. This approach, he said, dispels 'the medieval set of myths' guiding teacher efficacy and student outcomes, and replaces it with evidence-based, 'modern, data-driven' educational methodologies that may be the instruments responsible for a 'fundamental transformation of education' itself".[123]

Some view the videos and other material produced by the MOOC as the next form of the textbook. "MOOC is the new textbook", according to David Finegold of Rutgers University.[124] A study of edX student habits found that certificate-earning students generally stop watching videos longer than 6 to 9 minutes. They viewed the first 4.4 minutes (median) of 12- to 15-minute videos.[125] Some traditional schools blend online and offline learning, sometimes called flipped classrooms. Students watch lectures online at home and work on projects and interact with faculty while in class. Such hybrids can even improve student performance in traditional in-person classes. One fall 2012 test by San Jose State and edX found that incorporating content from an online course into a for-credit campus-based course increased pass rates to 91% from as low as 55% without the online component. "We do not recommend selecting an online-only experience over a blended learning experience", says Coursera's Andrew Ng.[64]

Because of massive enrollments, MOOCs require instructional design that facilitates large-scale feedback and interaction. The two basic approaches are:

- Peer-review and group collaboration
- Automated feedback through objective, online assessments, e.g. quizzes and exams[126] Machine grading of written assignments is also underway.[127]

So-called connectivist MOOCs rely on the former approach; broadcast MOOCs rely more on the latter.[128] This marks a key distinction between cMOOCs where the 'C' stands for 'connectivist', and xMOOCs where the x stands for extended (as in TEDx, edX) and represents that the MOOC is designed to be in addition to something else (university courses for example).[129]

Assessment can be the most difficult activity to conduct online, and online assessments can be quite different from the bricks-and-mortar version.[126] Special attention has been devoted to proctoring and cheating.[130]

Peer review is often based upon sample answers or rubrics, which guide the grader on how many points to award different answers. These rubrics cannot be as complex for peer grading as for teaching assistants. Students are expected to learn via grading others[131] and become more engaged with the course.[7] Exams may be proctored at regional testing centers. Other methods, including "eavesdropping technologies worthy of the C.I.A." allow testing at home or office, by using webcams, or monitoring mouse clicks and typing styles.[130] Special techniques such as adaptive testing may be used, where the test tailors itself given the student's previous answers, giving harder or easier questions accordingly.

"The most important thing that helps students succeed in an online course is interpersonal interaction and support", says Shanna Smith Jaggars, assistant director of Columbia University's Community College Research Center. Her research compared online-only and face-to-face learning in studies of community-college students and faculty in Virginia and Washington state. Among her findings: In Virginia, 32% of students failed or withdrew from for-credit online courses, compared with 19% for equivalent in-person courses.[64]

Assigning mentors to students is another interaction-enhancing technique.[64] In 2013 Harvard offered a popular class, The Ancient Greek Hero, instructed by Gregory Nagy and taken by thousands of Harvard students over prior decades. It appealed to alumni to volunteer as online mentors and discussion group managers. About 10 former teaching fellows also volunteered. The task of the volunteers, which required 3–5 hours per week, was to focus online class discussion. The edX course registered 27,000 students.[132]

Research by Kop and Fournier[117] highlighted as major challenges the lack of social presence and the high level of autonomy required. Techniques for maintaining connection with students include adding audio comments on assignments instead of writing them, participating with students in the discussion forums, asking brief questions in the middle of the lecture, updating weekly videos about the course and sending congratulatory emails on prior accomplishments to students who are slightly behind.[64] Grading by peer review has had mixed results. In one example, three fellow students grade one assignment for each assignment that they submit. The grading key or rubric tends to focus the grading, but discourages more creative writing.[104]

A. J. Jacobs in an op-ed in the New York Times graded his experience in 11 MOOC classes overall as a "B".[133] He rated his professors as '"B+", despite "a couple of clunkers", even comparing them to pop stars and "A-list celebrity professors." Nevertheless, he rated teacher-to-student interaction as a "D" since he had almost no contact with the professors. The highest rated ("A") aspect of Jacobs' experience was the ability to watch videos at any time. Student-to-student interaction and assignments both received "B-". Study groups that didn't meet, trolls on message boards and the relative slowness of online vs. personal conversations lowered that rating. Assignments included multiple choice quizzes and exams as well as essays and projects. He found the multiple choice tests stressful and peer graded essays painful. He completed only 2 of the 11 classes.[133][134]

Industry

MOOCs are widely seen as a major part of a larger disruptive innovation taking place in higher education.[135][136][137] In particular, the many services offered under traditional university business models are predicted to become unbundled and sold to students individually or in newly formed bundles.[138][139] These services include research, curriculum design, content generation (such as textbooks), teaching, assessment and certification (such as granting degrees) and student placement. MOOCs threaten existing business models by potentially selling teaching, assessment, and/or placement separately from the current package of services.[135][140][141]

President Barack Obama has cited recent developments, including the online learning innovations at Carnegie Mellon University, Arizona State University and Georgia Institute of Technology, as having potential to reduce the rising costs of higher education.[142]

James Mazoue, Director of Online Programs at Wayne State University describes one possible innovation:

The next disruptor will likely mark a tipping point: an entirely free online curriculum leading to a degree from an accredited institution. With this new business model, students might still have to pay to certify their credentials, but not for the process leading to their acquisition. If free access to a degree-granting curriculum were to occur, the business model of higher education would dramatically and irreversibly change.[143]

But how universities will benefit by "giving our product away free online" is unclear.[144]

No one's got the model that's going to work yet. I expect all the current ventures to fail, because the expectations are too high. People think something will catch on like wildfire. But more likely, it's maybe a decade later that somebody figures out how to do it and make money.

— James Grimmelmann, New York Law School professor[144]

Principles of openness inform the creation, structure and operation of MOOCs. The extent to which practices of Open Design in educational technology[145] are applied vary.

Attributes of major MOOC providers,[146] with update [147]



Initiatives

For profit

Free to access

Certification fee

Institutional credits

edX

No

Yes

Yes

No

Coursera

Yes

Partial

Yes

Partial

Udacity

Yes

Yes

Yes

Partial

Udemy

Yes

Partial

Yes

Partial

P2PU

No

Yes

No

No

Fee opportunities

In the freemium business model the basic product – the course content – is given away free. "Charging for content would be a tragedy", said Andrew Ng. But "premium" services such as certification or placement would be charged a fee however financial aids are given in some cases.[51]

Course developers could charge licensing fees for educational institutions that use its materials. Introductory or "gateway" courses and some remedial courses may earn the most fees. Free introductory courses may attract new students to follow-on fee-charging classes. Blended courses supplement MOOC material with face-to-face instruction. Providers can charge employers for recruiting its students. Students may be able to pay to take a proctored exam to earn transfer credit at a degree-granting university, or for certificates of completion.[144] Udemy allows teachers to sell online courses, with the course creators keeping 70–85% of the proceeds and intellectual property rights.[148]

Coursera found that students who paid $30 to $90 were substantially more likely to finish the course. The fee was ostensibly for the company's identity-verification program, which confirms that they took and passed a course.[64]

Overview of potential revenue sources for three MOOC providers[149][150]



edX

Coursera

UDACITY

- Certification

- Certification
- Secure assessments
- Employee recruitment
- Applicant screening
- Human tutoring or assignment marking
- Enterprises pay to run their own training courses
- Sponsorships
- Tuition fees
- Transcript services (not disclosed to students yet)

- Certification
- Employers paying to recruit talented students
- Students résumés and job match services
- Sponsored high-tech skills courses

In February 2013 the American Council on Education (ACE) recommended that its members provide transfer credit from a few MOOC courses, though even the universities who deliver the courses had said that they would not.[151] The University of Wisconsin offered multiple, competency-based bachelor's and master's degrees starting Fall 2013, the first public university to do so on a system-wide basis. The university encouraged students to take online-courses such as MOOCs and complete assessment tests at the university to receive credit.[citation needed] As of 2013 few students had applied for college credit for MOOC classes.[citation needed] Colorado State University-Global Campus received no applications in the year after they offered the option.[152]

Academic Partnerships is a company that helps public universities move their courses online. According to its chairman, Randy Best "We started it, frankly, as a campaign to grow enrollment. But 72 to 84 percent of those who did the first course came back and paid to take the second course."[153]

While Coursera takes a larger cut of any revenue generated – but requires no minimum payment – the not-for-profit edX has a minimum required payment from course providers, but takes a smaller cut of any revenues, tied to the amount of support required for each course.[154]

Challenges and criticisms

The MOOC Guide[155] suggests five possible challenges for cMOOCs:

- Relying on user-generated content can create a chaotic learning environment
- Digital literacy is necessary to make use of the online materials
- The time and effort required from participants may exceed what students are willing to commit to a free online course
- Once the course is released, content will be reshaped and reinterpreted by the massive student body, making the course trajectory difficult for instructors to control
- Participants must self-regulate and set their own goals

These general challenges in effective MOOC development are accompanied by criticism by journalists and academics.

Some dispute that the "territorial" dimensions of MOOCs[156] have received insufficient discussion or data-backed analysis, namely: 1. the true geographical diversity of enrolls in/completes courses; 2. the implications of courses scaling across country borders, and potential difficulties with relevance and knowledge transfer; and 3. the need for territory-specific study of locally relevant issues and needs.

Other features associated with early MOOCs, such as open licensing of content, open structure and learning goals, and community-centeredness, may not be present in all MOOC projects.[4]

Effects on the structure of higher education were lamented for example by Moshe Y. Vardi, who finds an "absence of serious pedagogy in MOOCs", and indeed in all of higher education. He criticized the format of "short, unsophisticated video chunks, interleaved with online quizzes, and accompanied by social networking."[clarification needed] An underlying reason is simple cost cutting pressures, which could hamstring the higher education industry.[157]

The changes predicted from MOOCs generated objections in some quarters. The San Jose State University philosophy faculty wrote in an open letter to Harvard University professor and MOOC teacher Michael Sandel:

Should one-size-fits-all vendor-designed blended courses become the norm, we fear two classes of universities will be created: one, well-funded colleges and universities in which privileged students get their own real professor; the other, financially stressed private and public universities in which students watch a bunch of video-taped lectures.[158]

Cary Nelson, former president of the American Association of University Professors claimed that MOOCs are not a reliable means of supplying credentials, stating that "It’s fine to put lectures online, but this plan only degrades degree programs if it plans to substitute for them." Sandra Schroeder, chair of the Higher Education Program and Policy Council for the American Federation of Teachers expressed concern that "These students are not likely to succeed without the structure of a strong and sequenced academic program."[159]

With a 60% majority, the Amherst College faculty rejected the opportunity to work with edX based on a perceived incompatibility with their seminar-style classes and personalized feedback. Some were concerned about issues such as the "information dispensing" teaching model of lectures followed by exams, the use of multiple-choice exams and peer-grading. The Duke University faculty took a similar stance in the spring of 2013. The effect of MOOCs on second- and third-tier institutions and of creating a professorial "star system" were among other concerns.[127]

At least one alternative to MOOCs has advocates: Distributed open collaborative courses (DOCC) challenge the roles of the instructor, hierarchy, money and massiveness. DOCC recognizes that the pursuit of knowledge may be achieved better by not using a centralized singular syllabus, that expertise is distributed throughout all the participants and does not just reside with one or two individuals.[160]

Another alternative to MOOCs is the Self-Paced Online Course (SPOC) which provides a high degree of flexibility. Students can decide on their own pace and with which session they would like to begin their studies. As of 2015, there are more than 800 self-paced courses, including 20% of all MOOCs on Class Central, a MOOC-aggregator, and the MOOC provider Coursera has also introduced sessions with soft deadlines.[161]

Although the purpose of MOOCs is ultimately to educate more people, recent criticisms include accessibility and a Westernized curriculum that lead to a failure to reach the very audience they were intended to save.[162]

MOOCs have been criticized for a perceived lack of academic rigor as well as the monetization strategies adopted by providers. In MOOCs: A University Qualification in 24 Hours? Michael Shea writes "By offering courses that are near-impossible to fail and charging up front fees for worthless certificates, Coursera is simply running a high-tech version of the kind of scams that have been run by correspondence colleges for decades."[163]

See also

- Outcome-based education
- OpenCourseWare
- Saylor Foundation
- Small private online course

References

- Bozkurt, A., Akgun-Ozbek, E., Onrat-Yilmazer, S., Erdogdu, E., Ucar, H., Guler, E., Sezgin, S., Karadeniz, A., Sen, N., Goksel-Canbek, N., Dincer, G. D., Ari, S.,& Aydin, C. H. (2015). Trends in Distance Education Research: A Content Analysis of Journals 2009-2013. International Review of Research in Open and Distributed Learning, 16(1),330-363. https://www.academia.edu/11056576/Trends_in_Distance_Education_Research_A_Content_Analysis_of_Journals_2009-2013
- Pappano, Laura. "The Year of the MOOC". The New York Times. Retrieved 18 April 2014.
- Lewin, Tamar (20 February 2013). "Universities Abroad Join Partnerships on the Web". New York Times. Retrieved 6 March 2013.
- Wiley, David. "The MOOC Misnomer". July 2012
- Cheverie, Joan. "MOOCs an Intellectual Property: Ownership and Use Rights". Retrieved 18 April 2013.
- David F Carr (20 August 2013). "Udacity hedges on open licensing for MOOCs". Information Week. Retrieved 21 August 2013.
- P. Adamopoulos, "What Makes a Great MOOC? An Interdisciplinary Analysis of Student Retention in Online Courses", ICIS 2013 Proceedings (2013) pp. 1–21 in AIS Electronic Library (AISeL)
- Zemsky, Robert (2014). "With a MOOC MOOC here and a MOOC MOOC there, here a MOOC, there a MOOC, everywhere a MOOC MOOC". Journal of General Education 63 (4): 237–243. doi:10.1353/jge.2014.0029.
- Saettler, L. Paul (1968). A History of Instructional Technology. New York: McGraw Hill. ISBN 0070544107.
- "MOOCs and Open Education Timeline (updated 2015)".
- Yuan, Li; Powell, Stephen; Olivier, Bill (2014). "Beyond MOOCs: Sustainable Online Learning in Institutions". Cetis publications. Retrieved 31 January 2014.
- Parr, Chris (17 October 2013). "Mooc creators criticise courses’ lack of creativity". Times Higher Education. Retrieved 1 June 2015.
- Downes, Stephen (2008). "CCK08 - The Distributed Course". The MOOC Guide. Retrieved 11 September 2013.
- Dave Cormier (18 April 2013). [Video on YouTube Attention les MOOC!?! Mois de la pédagogie universitaire] Check |url= value (help). University of Prince Edward Island.
- Cormier, Dave (2 October 2008). "The CCK08 MOOC – Connectivism course, 1/4 way". Dave's Educational Blog. Retrieved 10 September 2013.
- Kolowich, Steve (April 24, 2012). "Proto-MOOC Stays the Course". Inside Higher Ed. Retrieved 29 April 2015.
- Masters, Ken (2011). "A brief guide to understanding MOOCs". The Internet Journal of Medical Education 1 (Num. 2).
- The College of St. Scholastica, "Massive Open Online Courses", (2012)
- Yuan, Li, and Stephen Powell. MOOCs and Open Education: Implications for Higher Education White Paper. University of Bolton: CETIS, 2013. pp. 7–8.
- "What You Need to Know About MOOCs". Chronicle of Higher Education. Retrieved 14 March 2013.
- "Open Education for a global economy".
- Booker, Ellis (30 January 2013). "Early MOOC Takes A Different Path". Information Week. Retrieved 25 July 2013.
- Bornstein, David (11 July 2012). "Open Education For A Global Economy". New York Times. Retrieved 25 July 2013.
- "Partnership Model for Entrepreneurial Innovation in Open Online Learning".
- Siemens, George. "MOOCs are really a platform". Elearnspace. Retrieved 2012-12-09.
- Downes, Stephen "'Connectivism' and Connective Knowledge", Huffpost Education, 5 January 2011, accessed 27 July 2011
- Kop, Rita "The challenges to connectivist learning on open online networks: Learning experiences during a massive open online course", International Review of Research in Open and Distance Learning, Volume 12, Number 3, 2011, accessed 22 November 2011
- Bell, Frances "Connectivism: Its Place in Theory-Informed Research and Innovation in Technology-Enabled Learning", International Review of Research in Open and Distance Learning, Volume 12, Number 3, 2011, accessed 31 July 2011
- Downes, Stephen. "Learning networks and connective knowledge", Instructional Technology Forum, 2006, accessed 31 July 2011
- [Video on YouTube "George Siemens on Massive Open Online Courses (MOOCs)"] Check |url= value (help). YouTube. Retrieved 2012-09-18.
- Dialogue and Connectivism: A New Approach to Understanding and Promoting Dialogue-Rich Networked Learning [1] Andrew Ravenscroft International Review of Research in Open and Distance Learning Vol. 12.3 March – 2011, Learning Technology Research Institute (LTRI), London Metropolitan University, UK
- S.F. John Mak, R. Williams, and J. Mackness, Blogs and Forums as Communication and Learning Tools in a MOOC, Proceedings of the 7th International Conference on Networked Learning (2010)
- Smith, Lindsey "5 education providers offering MOOCs now or in the future". 31 July 2012.
- Yang, Dennis (14 March 2013). "Are We MOOC'd Out?". Huffington Post. Retrieved 5 April 2013.
- [Video on YouTube "SXSWedu 2013 - MOOCS: Hype or Hope?"] Check |url= value (help). SXSWedu.
- Yang, Dennis. "Are We MOOC'd Out?". Huffington Post.
- Tamar Lewin (20 February 2013). "Universities Abroad Join Partnerships on the Web". The New York Times. Retrieved 21 February 2013.
- Laura Pappano. The Year of the MOOC – The New York Times. 2 November 2012
- Skapinker, Michael (20 March 2013). "Open web courses are massively overhyped". Financial Times. Retrieved 5 April 2013.
- See "The MOOC Hype Fades Chronicle of Higher Education. Retrieved March 6, 2015."
- "Major Players in the MOOC Universe". chronicle.com. 29 April 2013. Retrieved 29 April 2013.
- Richard Pérez-Peña (17 July 2012). "Top universities test the online appeal of free". The New York Times. Retrieved 18 July 2012.
- Kow, Petrina. "Speak To Influence: Perform Powerfully at Work". http://twofold.asia. Retrieved 2 May 2015. External link in |website= (help)
- "Georgia Tech, Udacity Shock Higher Ed With $7,000 Degree". Forbes. 2012-04-18. Retrieved 2013-05-30.
- "MITx on edX (MOOCs)". MIT Office of Digital Learning. Retrieved 2 May 2015.
- "Announces Partnership with Google to Expand Open Source Platform". edX. 2013-09-10. Retrieved 2013-10-13.
- "A deeper partnership with XuetangX to increase quality education for Chinese students". edX.
- "edX Takes First Step toward Open Source Vision by Releasing XBlock SDK". www.edx.org. edX. Retrieved 6 April 2013.
- Young, Jeffrey R. (5 April 2013). "Stanford U. and edX Will Jointly Build Open-Source Software to Deliver MOOCs". Chronicle of Higher Education. Retrieved 3 April 2013.
- "What is Coursera's Stack?". http://www.quora.com. Qoura. Retrieved 8 April 2013. External link in |work= (help)
- Waldrop, M. Mitchell; Nature magazine (13 March 2013). "Massive Open Online Courses, aka MOOCs, Transform Higher Education and Science". Scientific American. Retrieved 28 April 2013.
- Tuesday, 12 March 2013 (2013-03-12). "MeeGo To MOOCs, Ex-Nokians Launch Eliademy To Put Education In The Cloud". TechCrunch. Retrieved 2013-10-13.
- Sotiris says: (2013-08-02). "Another Look at Eliademy, a cloud-based alternative to Moodle | Moodle News". Moodlenews.com. Retrieved 2013-10-13.
- "Hasso-Plattner-Institut bietet kostenlose Informatikkurse im Netz an". Zeit Online. July 31, 2012. Retrieved 17 March 2015.
- "MOOC hilft bei Management komplexer Softwareentwicklungs-Projekte" (PDF). Hasso Plattner Institute. 13 March 2015. Retrieved 17 March 2015.
- Claire Shaw (2012-12-20). "FutureLearn is UK's chance to 'fight back', says OU vice-chancellor | Higher Education Network | Guardian Professional". Guardian. Retrieved 2013-05-30.
- Tuesday, 19 February 2013 (2013-02-19). "U.K. MOOCs Alliance, Futurelearn, Adds Five More Universities And The British Library — Now Backed By 18 Partners". TechCrunch. Retrieved 2013-05-30.
- "OpenClassrooms Launches First MOOC-Based Bachelor Degree Recognized By French State". Techcrunch.com. Retrieved 2015-07-07.
- "EDBRIEF: OpenClassrooms partners with Studialis for State Recognized Online Training". Edukwest.eu. Retrieved 2015-07-02.
- Bernhardt, Ingo. "http://theconversation.com/openlearning-launches-into-competitive-moocs-market-10155". The Conversation. Retrieved 3 December 2013. External link in |title= (help)
- "PR Newswire UK: Australia sets the scene for free online education - MELBOURNE, Australia, 20 March 2013 /PRNewswire/". Australia: Prnewswire.co.uk. Retrieved 2013-05-30.
- "The Aussie Coursera? A new homegrown MOOC platform arrives". Theconversation.com. Retrieved 2013-05-30.
- Steve Kolowich (21 February 2013). "Competing MOOC Providers Expand into New Territory—and Each Other's" (blog by expert journalist). The Chronicle of Higher Education. Retrieved 21 February 2013.
- Fowler, Geoffrey A. (2013-10-08). "An early report card on MOOCs". Wall Street Journal. Retrieved 2013-10-14.
- Vihavainen, A.; Luukkainen, M.; Kurhila, J. (2012). "Multi-faceted support for MOOC in programming". Proceedings of the 13th annual conference on Information technology education - SIGITE '12. p. 171. doi:10.1145/2380552.2380603. ISBN 9781450314640.
- "MOOC dot Fi - Massive Open Online Courses". http://mooc.fi. External link in |website= (help)
- Kurhila, Jaakko. "Experiences from running a programming MOOC in Finland". http://www.aalto.fi/en/current/events/digi_breakfast_on-e-learning_and_moocs/. Retrieved 27 August 2014. External link in |website= (help)
- "Universidad Galileo". Galileo.edu. Retrieved 2013-10-13.
- "Desarrollando Aplicaciones para iPhone y iPad | FISICC". Galileo.edu. Retrieved 2013-10-13.
- "LRN Home". Dotlrn.org. Retrieved 2013-10-13.
- Burlingame, Russ. "Teaching Gender Through Comics With Christina Blanch, Part 1". Comic Book.
- Armitage, Hugh. "Christina Blanch (Gender Through Comic Books) on teaching with comics". Digital Spy.
- Horacio Reyes. "History of a revolution in e-learning". Revista Educacion Virtual. Retrieved 10 August 2012.
- "Professional Ethics Course". Physiopedia. Retrieved 16 August 2015.
- Harvey,, L.H.; Glinsky, J.V.; et al. (December 2014). "A Massive Open Online Course for teaching physiotherapy students and physiotherapists about spinal cord injuries" (PDF). Spinal Cord 52: 911–918. doi:10.1038/sc.2014.174.
- Hossain, Mohammad; Islam, Md. Shofiqul; et al. (January 2015). "A massive open online course (MOOC) can be used to teach physiotherapy students about spinal cord injuries: a randomised trial". Journal of Physiotherapy 61 (1): 21–27. doi:10.1016/j.jphys.2014.09.008.
- WCPT. "Thousands attracted by massive online course for physical therapists". WCPT News. Retrieved 16 August 2015.
- Zafrin Nurmohamed, Nabeel Gillani, and Michael Lenox (2013-07-04). "A New Use for MOOCs: Real-World Problem Solving". Harvard Business Review blog. Retrieved 2013-07-08.
- Amit Jain (2013-04-25). "Connect with students to "MOOC-source" your data". GuideStar Trust blog. Retrieved 2013-07-08.
- New, Jake (8 May 2013). "Partnership Gives Students Access to a High-Price Text on a MOOC Budget". Chronicle of Higher Education. Retrieved 14 May 2013.
- "Skynet University".
- [Introduction to Astronomy on YouTube "Skynet University on YouTube"] Check |url= value (help).
- [Massive open online course on Facebook "Skynet on Facebook"] Check |url= value (help).
- [Massive open online course on Twitter "Skynet on Twitter"] Check |url= value (help).
- "MOOC Completion Rates". katyjordan.com. Retrieved 2014-03-19.
- "Online education: Targeted MOOC captivates students". Nature Journal. Retrieved 2014-03-19.
- "Educação de qualidade ao alcance de todos". Veduca. 2013-08-11. Retrieved 2013-10-13.
- Latin America's First MOOC (17 June 2013). https://www.edsurge.com/n/2013-06-17-latin-america-s-first-mooc (Retrieved 2 July 2013).
- Sara Grossman (5 July 2013). "American MOOC Providers Face International Competition". The Chronicle of Higher Education. Retrieved 8 July 2013.
- "Primeiro curso superior virtual da América Latina já soma 10 mil inscritos". noticias.terra.com.br. Retrieved 2 May 2015.
- "Wedubox first massive online platform in Latam and MassChallenge". MassChallenge. 2013-08-11. Retrieved 2013-10-13.
- "Georgia Tech, Udacity Shock Higher Ed With $7,000 Degree". Forbes. Retrieved 15 May 2013.
- "Proving Grounds for a New Model for Higher Education". Huffington Post. Retrieved 29 September 2014.
- "The $7,000 Computer Science Degree — and the Future of Higher Education". Time. Retrieved 21 May 2013.
- "From market stall to University partnership – Marks & Spencer's long association with Leeds". Russell group.
- "UCT's first MOOC: Medicine and the arts". University of Cape Town. 2015-01-21. Retrieved 2015-03-20.
- "OpenClassrooms Launches First MOOC-Based Bachelor Degree Recognized By French State". TechCrunch.
- Steve Kolowich (2012-06-11). "Experts speculate on possible business models for MOOC providers". Inside Higher Ed. Retrieved 2013-10-04.
- See, e.g. the first 3 minutes of the video [Massive open online course at TED "Daphne Koller: What we're learning from online education"] Check |url= value (help). TED. June 2012. Retrieved 23 April 2013.
- Sharma, Yojana (22 April 2013). "Hong Kong MOOC Draws Students from Around the World". Chronicle of Higher Education. Retrieved 23 April 2013. reprinted from University World News
- Steve Kolowich, "In Deals With 10 Public Universities, Coursera Bids for Role in Credit Courses", Chronicle of Higher Education 30 May 2013
- MacKay, R.F. (11 April 2013). "Learning analytics at Stanford takes huge leap forward with MOOCs". Stanford Report. Stanford University. Retrieved 22 April 2013.
- René F. Kizilcec; Chris Piech; Emily Schneider. "Deconstructing Disengagement: Analyzing Learner Subpopulations in Massive Open Online Courses" (PDF). LAK conference presentation. Retrieved 22 April 2013.
- Bombardieri, Marcella (14 April 2013). "Can you MOOC your way through college in one year?". Boston Globe. Retrieved 23 April 2013.
- Phatak, D. B (2015). "Adopting MOOCs for quality engineering education in India.". Proceedings of the International Conference on Transformations in Engineering Education. Springer India. pp. 11–23.
- Iqbal, Sajid; Zang, Xizhe; Zhu, Yanhe; Chen, Clara; Zhao, Jie (2014). "On the impact of MOOCs on engineering education". MOOC, Innovation and Technology in Education (MITE), 2014 IEEE International Conference on. IEEE. pp. 101–104. 10.1109/MITE.2014.7020249.
- Ardis, Mark A.; Henderson , Peter B. (2012). Software engineering education (SEEd): is software engineering ready for MOOCs?. ACM SIGSOFT Software Engineering Notes. pp. 14–14.
- Kolowich, Steven (26 March 2013). "The Professors Who Make the MOOCs". Chronicle of Higher Education. Retrieved 26 March 2013.
- "Additional Results From The Chronicle's Survey". Chronicle of Higher Education. 26 March 2013. Retrieved 26 March 2013.
- Head, Karen (3 April 2013). "Sweating the Details of a MOOC in Progress". Chronicle of Higher Education. Retrieved 6 April 2013.
- Catropa, Dayna (24 February 2013). "Big (MOOC) Data". Inside Higher Ed. Retrieved 27 March 2013.
- Jordan, Katy. "MOOC Completion Rates: The Data". Retrieved 23 April 2013.
- "MOOCs on the Move: How Coursera Is Disrupting the Traditional Classroom" (text and video). Knowledge @ Wharton. University of Pennsylvania. 7 November 2012. Retrieved 23 April 2013.
- Kolowich, Steve (8 April 2013). "Coursera Takes a Nuanced View of MOOC Dropout Rates". The Chronicle of Higher Education. Retrieved 19 April 2013.
- "MOOC Interrupted: Top 10 Reasons Our Readers Didn’t Finish a Massive Open Online Course". Open Culture. Retrieved 21 April 2013.
- Mackness, Jenny, Mak, Sui Fai John, and Williams, Roy "The Ideals and Reality of Participating in a MOOC", Proceedings of the 7th International Conference on Networked Learning 2010
- Kop, Rita; Fournier, Helene (Fall 2010). "New Dimensions to Self-Directed Learning in an Open Networked Learning Environment" (PDF). International Journal of Self-Directed Learning 7.2. Archived from the original (PDF) on 2012-01-20.
- MOOCs - A Review of the State-of-the-Art. CSEDU International Conference on Computer Supported Education 2014. Barcelona, Spain: Yousef, A. M. F., Chatti, M. A., Schroeder, U., Wosnitza, M., Jakobs, H. April 2014. pp. 9–20. Retrieved 30 April 2015.
- Alraimi, Khaled M.; Zo, Hangjung; Ciganek, Andrew P. (January 2015). "Understanding the MOOCs continuance: The role of openness and reputation". Computers & Education 80: 28–38. doi:10.1016/j.compedu.2014.08.006.
- [Video on YouTube "10 Steps to Developing an Online Course: Walter Sinnott-Armstrong"] Check |url= value (help). Duke University. Retrieved 20 March 2013.
- "Designing, developing and running (Massive) Online Courses by George Siemens". Athabasca University. 12 September 2012. Retrieved 26 March 2013.
- Shirky, Clay (8 July 2013). "MOOCs and Economic Reality". The Chronicle of Higher Education. Retrieved 8 July 2013.
- "Librarians and the Era of the MOOC". Nature.com. 9 May 2013. Retrieved 11 May 2013.
- Young, Jeffrey R. (27 January 2013). "The Object Formerly Known as the Textbook". Chronicle of Higher Education. Retrieved 14 March 2013.
- Holmes, Lindsay. "An Early Report Card on Massive Open Online Courses". The Wall Street Journal. Retrieved 3 May 2015.
- Degree of Freedom – an adventure in online learning, MOOC Components – Assessment, 22 March 2013.
- Rivard, Ry (19 April 2013). "EdX Rejected". Inside Higher Education. Retrieved 22 April 2013.
- Carson, Steve. "What we talk about when we talk about automated assessment" 23 July 2012
- Downes, Stephen (9 April 2013). "What the 'x' in 'xMOOC' stands for". Retrieved 17 May 2014.
- Eisenberg, Anne (2 March 2013). "Keeping an Eye on Online Test-Takers". New York Times. Retrieved 19 April 2013.
- Wong, Michael (28 March 2013). "Online Peer Assessment in MOOCs: Students Learning from Students". Centre for Teaching, Learning and Technology Newsletter. University of British Columbia. Retrieved 20 April 2013.
- Richard Perez-Pena (25 March 2013). "Harvard Asks Graduates to Donate Time to Free Online Humanities Class By RICHARD PÉREZ-PEÑA Published:". The New York Times. Retrieved 26 March 2013.
- Jacobs, A.J. (21 April 2013). "Two Cheers for Web U!". New York Times, Sunday Review. Retrieved 23 April 2013.
- "Making the most of MOOCs: the ins and outs of e-learning" (Radio interview and call-in). Talk of the Nation. National Public Radio. 23 April 2013. Retrieved 23 April 2013.
- Barber, Michael; Katelyn Donnelly, Saad Rizvi. Forward by Lawrence Summers (March 2013). An Avalanche is Coming; Higher Education and the Revolution Ahead (PDF). London: Institute for Public Policy Research. p. 71. Retrieved 14 March 2013. Cite uses deprecated parameter |coauthors= (help)
- Parr, Chris (14 March 2013). "Fund ‘pick-and-mix’ MOOC generation, ex-wonk advises". Times Higher Education (London). Retrieved 14 March 2013.
- Watters, Audrey (5 September 2012). "Unbundling and Unmooring: Technology and the Higher Ed Tsunami". Educause Review. Retrieved 14 March 2013.
- Carey, Kevin (3 September 2012). "Into the Future With MOOC's". Chronicle of Higher Education. Retrieved 20 March 2013.
- Harden, Nathan (January 2013). "The End of the University as We Know It". The American Interest. Retrieved 26 March 2013.
- Zhu, Alex (6 September 2012). "Massive Open Online Courses – A Threat Or Opportunity To Universities?". Forbes. Retrieved 14 March 2013.
- Shirky, Clay (17 December 2012). "Higher education: our MP3 is the mooc". The Guardian. Retrieved 14 March 2013.
- "Remarks by the President on College Affordability -- Buffalo, NY". The White House. Retrieved 22 August 2013.
- Mazoue, James G. (28 January 2013). "The MOOC Model: Challenging Traditional Education". EDUCAUSE Review Online. Retrieved 26 March 2013.
- Lewin, Tamar (6 January 2013). "Students Rush to Web Classes, but Profits May Be Much Later". New York Times. Retrieved 6 March 2013.
- Iiyoshi, Toru; Kumar, M. S. Vijay (2008). Opening Up Education: The Collective Advancement of Education through Open Technology, Open Content, and Open Knowledge. MIT Press. ISBN 0262033712.
- Yuan, Li, and Stephen Powell. MOOCs and Open Education: Implications for Higher Education White Paper. University of Bolton: CETIS, 2013. http://publications.cetis.ac.uk/2013/667.
- Koller, Daphne. An update on assessments, grades and certification, Coursera blog, 2015. http://blog.coursera.org/post/131520811622/an-update-on-assessments-grades-and
- Carey, Kevin (2012-05-20). "Revenge of the Underpaid Professors". The Chronicle of Higher Education. Retrieved 2013-10-13.
- "Edukart Raises $500K To Bring Better Online Education To India And The Developing World". TechCrunch. 2013-05-30. Retrieved 2013-09-16.
- Yuan, Li, and Stephen Powell. MOOCs and Open Education: Implications for Higher Education White Paper. University of Bolton: CETIS, 2013.http://publications.cetis.ac.uk/2013/667, p.10
- Korn, Melissa (7 February 2013). "Big MOOC Coursera Moves Closer to Academic Acceptance". Wall Street Journal. Retrieved 8 March 2013.
- Kolowich, Steve (8 July 2013). "A University's Offer of Credit for a MOOC Gets No Takers". Chronicle of Higher Education. Retrieved 25 July 2013. Udacity, which is offering an online master's degree in computer science in partnership with Georgia Tech, reported in October 2013 that applications for the term starting in January 2014 were more than double the number of applications that Georgia Tech receives for its traditional program. Belkin, douglas (30 October 2013). "First-of-Its-Kind Online Master’s Draws Wave of Applicants". Retrieved 31 October 2013.
- Tamar Lewin. Public Universities to Offer Free Online Classes for Credit. 23 January 2013
- Kolowich, Steve (2013-02-21). "How EdX Plans to Earn, and Share, Revenue From Free Online Courses - Technology - The Chronicle of Higher Education". Chronicle.com. Retrieved 2013-05-30.
- "Benefits and Challenges of a MOOC". MoocGuide. 7 Jul 2011. Retrieved 4 February 2013.
- Olds, Kris (3 December 2012). "On the territorial dimensions of MOOCs". Inside Higher Ed. Retrieved 4 February 2013.
- Vardi, Moshe Y. (November 2012). "Will MOOCs destroy academia?". Communications of the ACM 55 (11): 5. doi:10.1145/2366316.2366317. Retrieved 23 April 2013.
- "San Jose State to Michael Sandel: Keep your MOOC off our campus". Boston Globe. 3 May 2013. Retrieved 7 May 2013.
- Basu, Kaustuv (2012-05-23). "Faculty groups consider how to respond to MOOCs". Inside Higher Ed. Retrieved 2013-10-13.
- Scott Jaschik, "Feminist Anti-MOOC", Inside Higher Ed, 19 August 2013.
- Shah, Dhawal (28 December 2015). "MOOCs in 2015: Breaking Down the Numbers". edSurge. Retrieved 28 December 2015.
- Gais, Hannah (July 17, 2014). "Is the developing world ‘MOOC’d out’?". Al Jazeera. Retrieved 19 July 2014.
- Shea, Michael (September 25, 2015). "MOOCs: A university qualification in 24 hours?". The Skinny. Retrieved 16 October 2015.

3D Point Clouds & Laser Scan Datasets

Oakland 3D Point Cloud Dataset

Freiburg 3D Point Cloud Dataset

Kevin Lai's 3D Urban Scenes Point Cloud Dataset

Osnabrück Robotic 3D Scan Repository

ETHZ ASL Laser Registration Datasets

Stanford 3D Scanning Repository

CMU Laser Scan Datasets

RGB-D & Kinect Datasets

TUM RGB-D SLAM Dataset and Benchmark

ETHZ ASL Kinect Dataset

NYU Depth Datasets

Overview over RGB-D Datasets

Robotics & Autonomous Driving Datasets

The Rawseeds Project

Ford Campus Vision and Lidar Dataset

Oxford New College Dataset

MIT Grand Challenge Dataset

Building Facade Detection & Classification

EPFL Facade Dataset

eTRIMS Dataset

Pedestrian Detection & Classification

Daimler Pedestrian Classification Dataset

Daimler Pedestrian Detection Dataset

Lane, Road & Intersection Recognition

Caltech Lanes Dataset

Road Marking Detection Dataset

3D Buildings & CAD Models

Caltech Buildings Dataset

Oxford Building Dataset

Zuerich Building Dataset

Bonn Synthetic CAD Models Dataset

Datasets

Landmark Recognition Dataset

Stanford Background Dataset

Oxford Brookes Semantic Street-level Mapping Dataset

Bristol Plane Detection from Single Image Dataset

Michigan Aspect Layout Estimation Dataset

Microsoft 7 Scenes Dataset

CMP Facade Dataset

QMUL Junction Dataset

WordNet

Washington Rome and Venice SfM Dataset

Indiana University SfM Dataset

Cornell Dubrovnik and Rome Dataset

Derek Hoiem's Geometric Context Dataset

ETHZ Symmetry in SfM Dataset

CMU Oakland 3D Dataset

York Vanishing Line Dataset

CMP Repetitive Pattern Dataset

UPenn Pedestrian Detection and Segmentation Dataset

ETHZ Multi-person Tracking Dataset

Microsoft Video Interpolation Dataset

Saxena's Make 3D Dataset

MIT Tiny Images Dataset

CIFAR 10/100

Leuven Architecture and Facade Datasets

Change Detection Dataset and Benchmark

LabelMe Dataset

Caltech Pedestrian Detection Dataset and Benchmark

Daimler Stereo Pedestrian Detection/Classification Datasets

MPI Sintel Flow Dataset

Inria Horses Dataset

Weizmann Horses Dataset

Notre Dame SfM Dataset

Graffiti Feature Matching Dataset

CamVid Dataset

Ecole Centrale Paris Facades Dataset

PASCAL VOC

UIUC Cars

Image Net

Caltech 256

Caltech 101

PETS 2009

PETS 2006

Inria Pedestrian Detection

TUD Pedestrian/Crossing

Room Layout Estimation Dataset

SUN Database

Freiburg-Berkeley Motion Segmentation Dataset

ETHZ Large-Scale Point Cloud Classification Benchmark

Calibration

Bouget Matlab Camera Calibration Toolbox

CamOdoCal

Zachary Taylor's multi-modal sensor calibration code

Our single-shot camera calibration toolbox

Our code for detecting checkerboards in images

Our omni-camera calibration code

OCamCalib

Christopher Mey's Omnidirectional Camera Calibration Toolbox

Stereo

Middlebury Stereo Dataset

Efficient Joint Segmentation, Occlusion Labeling, Stereo and Flow Estimation

Multiview Stereo

Stretcha's Dense Multi-view Stereo Dataset

Middlebury Multiview Stereo Dataset

Furukawa's Patch-based Multiview Stereo Software

SURE: Surface Reconstruction from Imagery

Surface Reconstruction from Multi-resolution Sample Points

Multi-scale Depth Map Fusion

Gipuma: Highly Parallelized Multi-view PatchMatch

Optical Flow

Middlebury Optical Flow Dataset

Graz FlowLib

Deqin Sun's Optical Flow Code

Library for variational image analysis and continuous global optimization

Scene Flow

Julien Quiroga's RGB-D Scene Flow codes

General Correspondence Algorithms

Generalized PatchMatch

SIFTflow

KLT Feature Tracker

Structure-from-Motion & Bundle Adjustment

Noah Snavely's Bundler

Sparse Bundle Adjustment

g2o: Graph optimization

CMP SfM Web Service

R3DR - Robust 3D Reconstruction from Visual Data

SLAM & Visual Odometry

TUM Dense Visual Slam for RGB-D Cameras

LSD SLAM

Raul Mur's Monocular ORBSLAM

libviso2

3D Point Clouds & Registration

LibPointMatcher (Point Cloud Registration)

PointClouds Library

Geometric Context

GaTech Video Geometric Context Dataset

Textonboost

Jamie Shotton's Textonboost Dataset

Jamie Shotton's Textonboost Code

Inpainting

Guided Inpainting

Learning & Inference in Graphical Models

Kolmogorov's Max-Flow/QPBO/Stereo-/Graph-matching software

Shai Bagon's Matlab Code for Discrete Optimization

Anton Osokin's Matlab wrappers for Kolomgorov's code

Higher-order binary clique reduction

OpenGM

Bjoern Andre's Code for Graphical Models, Graphs and Randomized Decision Trees

Decision Tree Fields

Regression Tree Fields

Grante Discrete Factor Graph Inference Library

Alexander Schwing's Distributed Convex Belief Propagation Code

Alexander Schwing's Structured Prediction with Latent Variables Code

GCMex: Graph Cuts Multi-label Energy Minimization MATLAB Wrapppers

UGM: Matlab toolbox for undirected graphical models (pairwise only)

Efficient planar graph-cut

libDAI: C++ library for Discrete Approximate Inference in graphical models

CYBORG: Danny Tarlow's HOP-MAP Code for Inference in higher-order graphical models

Deep Learning & Convolutional Neural Networks

Deep Learning Tutorial

Nando DeFreitas Course on Deep Learning

Stanford Course on Deep Learning

Notes on Deep Learning

Sebastian Bubeck's Blog

Alex Krizhevsky's GPU implementation of convolutional neural nets

Python-based deep neural network library

Caffe: Berkeley Convolutional Neural Networks Library

Separable Convolutional Filters

Marvin: A minimalist GPU-only N-dimensional ConvNet framework

Keras: Deep Learning library for Theano and TensorFlow

A guide to convolution arithmetic for deep learning

Object Proposals

Candidate Regions

Geodesic Object Proposals

Edge Boxes

Cascaded Ranking SVMs

Prime Object Proposals

Object Detection

Ross Girshick's Deformable Part-based Model Code

Fast implementation of DPM in C++

Bogdan Alexe's Objectness Measure

Exemplar SVMs

Piotr's Matlab Toolbox: Fast Object Detection

Fast R-CNN code

2D Feature Detectors & Descriptors

Texture Classification Filter Banks

ObjectBank Features

Koen van de Sande's Color Descriptors

HoG-based Template Matching

SIFT | SURF | BRISK | DAISY | BRIEF

Matlab Toolbox for Matching Line Segments

2D Low-level Operators

Fast weighted median filtering

3D Feature Detectors & Descriptors

Liefeng Bo's RGB-D Kernel Descriptors

Xiafong Ren's Code for Contour Detection, 3D Kernel Descriptors and RGB-D labeling

Super-resolution & Depth Upsampling

Ferstl's Image Guided Depth Upsampling

Unsupervised Segmentation & Boundary Detection

SLIC Superpixels

SEEDS Superpixels

Probability of Boundary

Structured Edge Detection Toolbox

Berkeley Segmentation Dataset

From Contours to Regions

SketchTokens: Mid-level Feature Learning for Contour and Object Detection

Semantic Segmentation

Lubor Ladicky's Automatic Labeling Environment ALE

Philipp Krähenbühl's Fully Connected CRF and Textonboost Code

CPMC Bottom-Up Object Segmentation Code

O2P: Semantic Segmentation with Second-Order Pooling

Daimler Urban Segmentation Dataset

Finding Things: Image Parsing with Regions and Per-Exemplar Detectors

Figure-Ground Segmentation

Daniel Küttel's Segmentation Transfer Code

DenseCut

Video Segmentation

Vittorio Ferrari's Fast Video Segmentation Code

Video Segmentation with Superpixels

Grundmann & Essa's Video Segmentation Online Service

Scene Classification & Categorization

SUN Scene Classification Code

Octree Representations

University of Freiburg's Octomap

OpenVDB: Volume Hierarchy Format by Dreamworks

Simple C++ Implementation

Templated C++ Octree Implementation

Random Forests

Christoph Lassner's Fertilized Random Forest Library

Oliver Tebul's Random Forest Classification Implementation

Clustering

MPI k-means

Computer Vision Libraries

OpenCV

VLFeat

STAIR: Stanford Vision Library

Integrating Vision Toolkit

Peter Kovesi's MATLAB Computer Vision Toolbox

Darwin: Machine Learning and Vision Library

Tuwo Computer Vision Library

Piotr's Matlab Toolbox: Fast Object Detection, Classification, Clustering, Filtering

Volumetric Fusion

SiftFu KinectFusion Algorithm

Kangaroo Library

Meshes to Signed Distance Functions

Mechanical Turk

Toolkit for Mechanical Turk Segmentation and object labeling

Feature Visualizations

HOGgles: Visualizing Object Detection Features

3D Visualization

Pangolin Library

OpenFlipper: RWTH Open Source Geometry Processing and Rendering Framework

Meshing

DistMesh - A Simple Mesh Generator in MATLAB

Iso2Mesh

Gabriel Peyre's Mesh Simplification Routines

David Legland's Toolbox for Mesh Manipulation

Kernel Density Estimation (KDE)

Kernel Density Estimation Toolbox for Matlab

Optimization

SpearMint: Bayesian Optimization for Python and Matlab

BayesOpt: A Bayesian Optimization Toolbox with Python and Matlab interfaces

NLopt: Non-linear Optimization Toolbox

Mark Schmidt's minFunc unconstrained real-valued multivariate optimization in MATLAB using line search methods

Library for variational image analysis and continuous global optimization

Other Useful Libraries

CGAL

gnumpy: GPU computations in python

Simple Rendering Code

Tom Minka's Lightspeed Toolbox with efficient MATLAB functions for algebra and statistics

GitHub of Johannes Ulen with code for segmentation, stereo, meanfield, trws

Tutorials and Further Reading

Gabriel Peyre's Numerical Tours of Signal Processing

On-Line Compendium of Computer Vision

Advanced Vision Video Lectures

[Tutorial on Machine Learning with Torch: http://code.madbits.com/wiki/doku.php]

About Doing Research

The Researcher's Bible

Bill Freeman on Success in Graduate School

Phil Torr's advices for PhD students

Version Control

Git Tutorial

Git Comprehensive Guide

Git Tutorial

Books

Deep Learning Book
